Name: Bravo Supermarket
Address: Broadway near 181st, Manhattan, NY
Description: Good selection of produce, includes some Latin American specialty items

Name: Mike's Bagels
Address: 4033 Broadway at W 168th Street, Manhattan, NY

Name: Morton-Williams
Address: Broadway and 115th Street., Manhattan, NY
Description: Time I've gone the staff have been in the process of throwing stuff out, so 9 or 9:30, and they were friendly enough about letting us dive away. It's a very busy corner, and well-lit, so its high-profile dumpster diving, not for the shy.
Time: 9:30PM, every

Name: D'Agostino
Address: Broadway and 110th Street., Manhattan, NY
Comment:  Groceries
Time:9:30PM, every
Comment: I'm not sure Comment the best time is, but I think 9-9:30 is Time I've had good luck there.

Name: Absolute Bagel
Address: Broadway and 108th St., Manhattan, NY
Comment: The usual bagel abundance, plenty fresh.
Time:  9PM, Every

Name: Garden of Eden
Address: Broadway between 108th and 109th Streets., Manhattan, NY
Description: One of the best diving sites in the city‚Äîsuper-high end fresh produce in huge plastic barrels, bags of fresh-made packaged entrees, loose buffet bar food, lots more. Enormous volume. Lots of exotic produce. You'll find stuff there from 9:30 or 10 on.
Time: 9PM, Every

Name: Silver Moon Bakery
Address: Broadway and 105th Street, Manhattan, NY
Time: 9PM, Every
Description: We found meat and cheese sandwiches as well as

Name: Hot and Crusty
Address:  Broadway at 105th St, and between 87th and 88th Sts., Manhattan, NY
Description: All the bready stuff– muffins, pizza slices, rolls, croissants, etc. We had more luck with the store in the 80s.
Time: 9PM, Everybread.

Name: Hot and Crusty
Address:  Broadway at 105th St, Manhattan, NY
Description: All the bready stuff– muffins, pizza slices, rolls, croissants, etc. We had more luck with the store in the 80s.
Time: 9PM, Every

Name: Hot and Crusty
Address:  Broadway between 87th and 88th Sts., Manhattan, NY
Description: All the bready stuff– muffins, pizza slices, rolls, croissants, etc. We had more luck with the store in the 80s.
Time: 9PM, Every

Name: Gristedes
Address: Broadway and 103rd St., Manhattan, NY
Description:  Normal supermarket stuff, although we didn't find much produce. Lots of eggs and bread though.

Name: Health Nuts
Address: Broadway between 98th and 99th Sts., Manhattan, NY
Description: We found mostly prepared foods, some vegetarian and vegan, some not.

Name: Gary Null's Uptown Whole Foods
Address: Broadway and 89th Street, Manhattan, NY
Description: Produce, pretty much. Food's out by 10:30 pm, perhaps earlier.
Time: 10:30PM

Name: Barzini's
Address: Broadway between 90th and 91st, Manhattan, NY
Description: Lots of good produce.

Name: Supersol
Address: Amsterdam betwen 85th and 86h, west side, Manhattan, NY
Description:  Kosher supermarket. On 2 trips, we found many non-vegan protein staples not often found elseAddress:, such as whitefish and cheese, plus dry macaroni, etc.

Name: Godiva
Address: Broadway at 84th Street, Manhattan, NY
Comment: Often throws out fancy quality strawberries that they dip in chocolate. Sometimes chocolate as well.

Name: Barnes & Noble
Address: Broadway at 82nd Street, Manhattan, NY
Description: Barnes & Noble recently instituted a country-wide recycling policy, so their dumpster may no longer hold loads of stripped magazines and paperbacks. Direct reuse is always more resource-efficient than recycle, so if the books are still there it's worth saving them. In the past we have also occasionally found sealed boxes of hardcover books at this location. If you're in the neighborhood, please check and let us know Comment you find. Boxcutter recommended.

Name:  Gracefully
Address: 65th and West End Avenue, Manhattan, NY
Description:  On a first run *October 2012*, we found cheese packs, individual drinks, hotdogs, sushi, packaged and unpackaged produce,  and more. Worth further exploration.

Name: Western Beef
Address: West End Avenue on 62nd Street ,, Manhattan, NY
Comment: dumpster against the building on 62nd
Description: On a first run *October 2012*, plentiful packaged and unpackaged produce, some non-perishables *like crackers*. Worth further exploration.

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Description: Reliable source of high-fat, low nutrition calories.
Address: E 86th St near 1st Ave, Manhattan, NY

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Address:  E 92nd & Lex, Manhattan, NY
Description: Reliable source of high-fat, low nutrition calories.

Name: Key Food
Address: 2nd Avenue and 92nd Street, in the Rupert Towers building, Manhattan, NY
Description: On our first foray, we found only some shrink-wrapped produce, plus local street people hanging out seemed hungry. If folks find more another time, please email us.

Name: Eli's Vinegar Factory
Address: 91st between 1st and York, Manhattan, NY
Description: In the past we've found this store continuously throwing away recycling dumpsters full of bread every day. At 11pm on Jan 2, 2012, we found nothing.

Name: Patak's *Gourmet Deli*
Address: Madison Avenue between 89th and 90th Streets, Manhattan, NY
Description: Lots of black bags, but comparatively little good food. Some pre-made sandwiches and bread.

Name: Gristedes
Address: Lexington Avenue and 89th Street, Manhattan, NY
Description: Dairy and eggs galore, a little not-so-great quality produce.

Name: C Town
Address: 1st Ave between 88th and 89th St, Manhattan, NY
Description: Accessible supermarket food *produce, dairy, etc*, athough on 1/2/12 we found very little that was useable.

Name: Elm Health & Pharmacy
Address: 1st Ave at 88th St, Manhattan, NY
Description: Deserves more checking; let us know Comment you find. On a trailblaze in 2011 we found a huge amount of organic packaged goods– but we could have stumbled upon a once-a-quarter shelf emptying. Time we came back in early 2012, there was loads of yogurt, including soy and almond milk varieties, but every container had had a hole cut in it and the bags were a complete mess.

Name: Food Emporium
Address: 87th St near 2nd Avenue, Manhattan, NY
Description: Possibly date driven, but we found absurdly abundant quantities of food, from the usual produce and bread to significant amounts of meat and dairy *including undamaged milk and cream*, and some packaged goods and flowers. Mostly in bins and on plastic-wrapped pallets on the side of the store *87th St*. As of last check *Jan 2013* we found huge amounts of produce, dairy, meats, flowers and more. During construction, bins are tucked near the scaffolding on 87th.

Name: Bagel Bob's
Address: York between 86 and 87, Manhattan, NY
Description: Like all Bagel Bob's, no shortage of bagels of all varieties. Alex was thankful there were no onion bagels stinking up the bag.

Name: Tal Bagels
Address: E 86th Street east of 1st Ave., Manhattan, NY
Description: Here you will find…bagels!
Name: Eli's

Name: Gristedes
Address: E 86th St west of 1st Ave, across street from the Dunkin D's, Manhattan, NY
Description: Usual supermarket assortment of average quality produce, packaged goods, dairy, baked goods. As of last check *Jan 2013* we found a lot of the usual supermarket finds.

Name: Duane Reade
Address: Northeast corner of 86th Street and 1st Ave, Manhattan, NY
Description: At last check of this location *Jan 2013* we found a bunch of candy, pudding, babyfood and other odds and ends.

Name: Eli's
Address: 3rd Avenue between 80th and 81st Sts., Manhattan, NY
Description: Most of their trash goes through a compactor, but on our first dive we found about five bags of uncompacted food including yogurt, almonds and butter.

Name: Associated
Address: 1st Avenue between 81st and 82nd Sts., Manhattan, NY
Description: Produce, bread and more.

Name: Gristedes
Address: 2nd Avenue between 75th & 76th, Manhattan, NY
Description: Huge piles of bags on blindingly lit stretch of 2nd Avenue– not for the shy. Similar to Comment's found at Gristedes in other parts of town, including produce, bread, dairy and more.

Name: Food Emporium
Address: 1st Avenue at 71st, Manhattan, NY
Description: We've checked this one twice recently *Nov 2010*. First time, produce *some of which packaged*, some past-date staples. It was on a high trolley that we unpacked and needed to re-pack. Second time, Cindy's comments: INSANE amounts of trash – 4 or 5 of those small dumpsters, all piled over head-high.  Tons of bread, still frozen foods, sweets, produce, and more, and I only got through one or two dumpsters.

Name: Grace's Market
Address: 71st and 3rd Avenue: *north east corner*, Manhattan, NY
Description: This is a large gourmet supermarket Address: in the past we've found lots of stuff. Most recently *Nov 2010*, nothing– but we may have been too late., Manhattan, NY

Name: Walgreen
Address: 2nd Ave and 70th St, Manhattan, NY
Description: Our group has found loads of stuff on 2 recent occasions *autumn 2010*. Everything from halloween costumes to sodas and bottled water to a surprising amount of deli-type packaged:   food, as well as some produce.

Name:  Gourmet Garage
Name: Eli's
Address:  301 E 64th Street between 1st and 2nd Ave, Manhattan, NY
Description: At other locations in the city, this retailer has been locking its dumpsters or has disappeared them from the street. Comment:ever, as of April 2010 we have reports that good food is accessible in the morning. A contributor writes: I pass at 8:00am on weekdays. Two days in a row there has been a clear bag with rolls/bread, and varying packages of ready made salads *some with chicken added, etc*.  The expiration date is of the day before. This is a mini Gourmet Garbage; in several passes in 2012, Freegan.info members haven't found anything in the evening, although morning may still be fine.

Name: Morton Williams
Address: 917 9th Avenue, between 58th and 59th Streets, Manhattan, NY
Description: Produce, bagels, bread, sweets, packaged goods, clean packaged sandwiches. *updated October 2012*.

Name: Morton Williams
Address: 58th Street just east of Broadway *store entrance is on 57th, but the trash is on 58th*, Manhattan, NY
Description: On the messy side, but on a pretty quiet street, so a good place for the shy. In October 2012 we found a bunch of produce and bread, some dairy products and a whole heap of cookies.

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Address: 54th and 10th Avenue, Manhattan, NY
Description: May vary. In October 2012, no donuts were out, but there was a lot of pumpkin donut mix.

Name: Gristedes
Address: 8th Avenue and 54th Street, Manhattan, NY
Description: Lots  of produce, bread, eggs, and packaged goods here. In the past employees got a bit angry with us, but didn't try to stop us. *Updated October 2012*

Name: Pick a Bagel
Address: 53 and 8th, Manhattan, NY
Description: croissants and bagels. Updated October 2012.

Name: Duane Reade
Address: 53rd and 8th, Manhattan, NY
Description: This chain is becoming one of NYC's bigger wasters. Here's a report for this location from October 2012: One of the largest curbside piles of usable goods I have ever seen! You could have opened up a pop-up store with the finds here! *no exaggeration* bagful of gum!   bagful of cookies, snacks *Pirate's booty stuff*, cans of baked beans, mac and cheese, cologne, chocolate *Hersheys*, soap, some pills *prenatal, still not expired!*, hair care products, baby care products *soaps, lotions*, scar-away *ideal for c-section*, many other drugstore-type things… I can't imagine this was a typical night… I can't even guess why so much was tossed that night… at least a couple of other passers-by took some.  wild!

Name: Food Emporium
Address: Dumpsters are on 49th Street just east of 8th Avenue, Manhattan, NY
Description: Loads of stuff. We found veggies, tofu, bread, dairy, nuts and seeds. It's a bit overwhelming here, as there is a lot of stuff. *updated Jan. 2010*

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Address: 9th Avenue between 48th and 49th, Manhattan, NY
Comment: Typical DD fare! *updated Jan. 2010*

Name: Hale and Hearty Soup
Address: 42nd between 5th and 6th, Manhattan, NY
Comment: Bread, salads.

Name: Pret A Manger
Address: 135 W.50th Street between 50th and 7th Av., Manhattan, NY
Description: 42nd Street between 5th and 6th Aves *north side of Street*
As of September 2009, a former employee says they donate all their leftovers. Experienced divers know many stores make this claim; Comment:ever, the pickings have been slim for a while.

Name: Pax
Address: 42nd Street between 7th and 8th., Manhattan, NY
Comment: Wrap sandwiches, pizza, baked goods.
Comment: Fairly narrow time window‚ stuff goes out late and is picked up by 1:30 AM or so.

Name: Walgreens
Address: 42nd and 7th, Manhattan, NY
Description: I have repeatedly found 20 or so black bags full of merchandise, from food to toiletries to drugs to weird tourist crap. Trash goes out around 9 PM and is collected by about 10:20.

Name: Godiva Chocolates
Address: Broadway, between 41st and 42nd, Manhattan, NY
Description: Chocolate covered strawberries, and other varieties of chocolate.  Not too much volume usually. Be careful of their really thin bags that fall apart easily.
Time: 9-11 PM except Saturdays

Name: Pax
Address: 40th Street and 6th Avenue, Manhattan, NY
Description: Bagels, rolls, variety of other stuff. Less consistent than other Pax stores.

Name: Midtown Comics
Address: W. 40th Street at 7th Avenue, Manhattan, NY
Description:  Comics books, magazines, paperback novels, comic book protective bags and boards. Check the black bags and the sealed cardboard boxes. With the store to your back *entrance on 40th St, NOT 7th Ave*, you will see a street sign right in front of you. Everything to the immediate right of the sign pole is Midtown Comics trash. Everything to the left is their neighbors.

Name: Pax
Address: Broadway between W 35th and W 36th Streets, Manhattan, NY
Description: LOTS of really expensive sandwiches, esp. wraps. Muffins, bagels. Very popular, so sometimes stuff is gone by the time you get there.

Name: Hale and Hearty Soup
Address: 35th and 7th Avenue, Manhattan, NY
Description: Entire bag of cut romaine lettuce, prepacked mixed salads in plastic sealed bowls. Soup veggies and beans sometimes.

Name: D'Agostino
Address: 1st Avenue and 56th, Manhattan, NY
Description: Bread and good produce in large quantities; recent dives *2011/12* we found plenty of produce plus pies, eggs, soy protein things. Previous finds include fancy items like organic drink mix and olive oil. There are regular neighborhood divers so please share.

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Address: 1st Avenue and 56th, Manhattan, NY
Description: The normal DD stuff; bags are on 1st Ave side by city trash can.

Name: Cosi
Address: 56th St between Madison & Park, Manhattan, NY
Description: We found focaccia bread and fresh unbaked dough, but kind of a 2nd choice location.

Name: Tal Bagels
Address: 1st Ave near 54th St, Manhattan, NY
Description: Very fresh bagels, not mixed with trash.

Name: Walgreens
Address: 2nd Ave between 52 and 53, Manhattan, NY
Description: Mixed results in the evening– sometimes lots of household goods, packaged sandwiches, salads, canned goods, etc., sometimes nothing.

Name: D'Agostino
Address: 1st Ave & 53rd, Manhattan, NY
Description: Massive amounts of produce in a several mini-dumpsters on the sidewalk.

Name: Pain Quotidien
Address: 937 Second Avenue  at 50th St, Manhattan, NY
Description: Huge rounds of crusty whole grain sourdough bread that stay moist inside for many days after being tossed. Even on days Time the whole loaves aren't there, you'll find quarter and half loaves and/or sliced bread. Also some baguettes, croissants, muffins. See their store listings and let us know Comment you find at other locations.

Name: Associated
Address: 2nd Avenue between 48th and 49th., Manhattan, NY
Description: A contributor wrote in Jan 2011: Every week night around 10:30 the trash hits the curb *clear bags, no dumpsters!*.  The garbage truck comes around 11:00. Fresh bagels, rolls, cranberries, grapes, lettuce, tomatoes, apples, bananas, corn….wow!  In all the months I've been going there, nobody has joined me yet.  Oh come all ye' faithful! Freekin' Freegan Goldmine!

Name: Café Europa
Address: 42nd Street between 5th and Madison, Manhattan, NY
Description:  Pizza, salads, sandwiches

Name: Bread Factory
Address: 9th Avenue and 43rd St, Manhattan, NY
Description: Pies and pizza slices, unwrapped, messy. 10:20pm was too early for this place. *updated Jan. 2010*

Name: International Grocery
Address: 543 9th Ave, at 40th Street, Manhattan, NY
Description:  Worth checking if you're blowing through the Port Authority bus terminal. We found Kabul brand flatbread and some produce, but not a lot. We didn't find anything of note here on a Monday night. *updated Jan. 2010*

Name: Nice & Natural
Address: 673 9th Ave, between 46th and 47th Streets, Manhattan, NY
Description:  We found lots of packaged vegan prepared foods. At 10:30pm on a Monday night, we found nothing here. *updated Jan. 2010*

Name: Stiles Market
Address: 41st Street between 9th and 10th Aves., Manhattan, NY
Description: This is a semi-open-air produce market. The night we went their dumpster didn't yield a lot of usable produce, but if you're in the area it's worth a look. *updated Jan. 2010*

Name: Zaro's
Address: 41st between Madison and Lex., Manhattan, NY
Description: Sent to our mailbox: Friday evenings starting at 6:30 or so, bags and bags and BAGS of bread and bagels are put out. In addition, more bags of raw bread/bagel dough *shaped and portioned already* are also put out… take it home, pop it in the oven for 10-15 minutes at 350 degrees, and voila – freshly baked breads *and really good!!*. Doesn't get much more freshly made than that. Haven't tried other days and times – honestly, we get enough on one visit on Fridays that there's no need to go back. And we take maybe 1/20th of Comment's there, so there's plenty to go around.

Name: Pain Quotidien
Address: 40th, just a bit east of 6th Ave, across from Bryant Park, Manhattan, NY
Description: Throws out even on Saturdays *and also Sundays*, starting early, around 7:00 or 7:30, with the usual delectable pastries and huge breads and good breadsticks and sliced bread too…. abundant!

Name: Daniel's Bagels
Address: 569 3rd Avenue, between 37th & 38th Streets, Manhattan, NY
Description: Comment else? Bagels!

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Address: 567 3rd Avenue, right next to the bagel place, Manhattan, NY
Description: Enuff donuts to stuff a kop, plus they have…bagels!

Name: Hotel Tuscany,  used to be the W
Address: 39th St between Park and Lexington, Manhattan, NY
Description:  good for soaps and shampoos, not food

Name: Courtyard Marriott
Address: 40th St between 5th and Madison, Manhattan, NY
Description: also for soaps and stuff, not food

Name: Guy and Gallard
Address: 29th Street at 7th Ave, Manhattan, NY
Comment: Dumpster on 29th Street side
Description: Bagels, bread, salads, fruit salads, sandwiches, prepared gourmet meal thingees, fresh squeezed juice, yogurt and granola, etc. Kind of have to really reach in the bags to find good stuff sometimes, but there's lots of it.

Name: Flower market
Address: 28th Street between 6th and 7th Avenues, Manhattan, NY
Description: Stores throughout the block.The stores all close by 6pm; regulars check early, but there are still flowers and plants for all until late at night.

Name: CVS
Address: 750 6th Ave at 25th st, Manhattan, NY
Comment: On the same block is a Starbucks, on 24th and 6th ave.
Description: A reader told us in October 2011 that both stores throw out massive bags of sandwiches and salads, about 1x per week.

Name: Gristedes
Address: 8th Avenue and 26th Street; recessed dumpster is on 26th between 8th and 9th Avenues., Manhattan, NY
Description: A New York City megawaster is up to its usual tricks in Chelsea. The usual assortment of produce, dairy and eggs, bread and prepared foods. On the night freegan.info scouted, all locations had usable food, although at the Megastore and 26th Street dumpster it was in messy condition. At the 9th Avenue location a worker said we couldn't go through the garbage *but we did anyway and found produce and boxes of cereal*.

Name: Gristedes
Address:9th Avenue between 23rd and 24th Streets, Manhattan, NY
Description: A New York City megawaster is up to its usual tricks in Chelsea. The usual assortment of produce, dairy and eggs, bread and prepared foods. On the night freegan.info scouted, all locations had usable food, although at the Megastore and 26th Street dumpster it was in messy condition. At the 9th Avenue location a worker said we couldn't go through the garbage *but we did anyway and found produce and boxes of cereal*.

Name: Gristedes
Address: Megastore, west side of 8th Avenue between 21st and 22nd Streets, Manhattan, NY
Description: A New York City megawaster is up to its usual tricks in Chelsea. The usual assortment of produce, dairy and eggs, bread and prepared foods. On the night freegan.info scouted, all locations had usable food, although at the Megastore and 26th Street dumpster it was in messy condition. At the 9th Avenue location a worker said we couldn't go through the garbage *but we did anyway and found produce and boxes of cereal*.

Name: Murray's Bagels
Address: 249 8th Avenue between 22nd and 23rd Streets, Manhattan, NY
Description: Clean bagels, no muss no fuss.

Name: Garden of Eden
Address: 162 West 23rd Street, Manhattan, NY
Description: Yupscale NYC based chain that specializes in produce, prepared foods and luxury products.

Name: Krispy Creme
Address:  W 23rd Street between 7th and 8th Avenues, Manhattan, NY
Description:  Donuts, of course.

Name: Duane Reade
Address: 8th Ave. between 16th and 17th Streets, Manhattan, NY
Description: This new store was reported to us in March 2010 as as having TONS of fabulous food… Gourmet salads, breads, sandwiches and much much more. It's all packaged, sealed and with today's expiration date. It's a brand new store that few people know about yet so there's a TON of food to go around. We were there in Aug 2011 and yes, there was some stuff but don't expect miracles.
erName: Garden of Eden

Name: Le Pain Quotidien
Address: 7th Ave. between 17th and 18th Streets, Manhattan, NY
Description: Huge rounds of crusty whole grain sourdough bread that stay moist inside for many days after being tossed. Even on days Time the whole loaves aren't there, you'll find quarter and half loaves. Also some baguettes, croissants, muffins. In July 2011 at the 9th Ave location I found Comment looked like an unbaked round but turned out to be an entire chocolate mousse cake. Sometimes the stuff at these stores is in bags that had been held for City Harvest– folks there confirm that if their bags are on the sidewalk with the trash, which they shouldn't be of course, then City Harvest is definitely NOT picking up the food.

Name: Le Pain Quotidien
Address: 52 9th Avenue between 14th and 15th Streets., Manhattan, NY
Description: Huge rounds of crusty whole grain sourdough bread that stay moist inside for many days after being tossed. Even on days Time the whole loaves aren't there, you'll find quarter and half loaves. Also some baguettes, croissants, muffins. In July 2011 at the 9th Ave location I found Comment looked like an unbaked round but turned out to be an entire chocolate mousse cake.  Sometimes the stuff at these stores is in bags that had been held for City Harvest– folks there confirm that if their bags are on the sidewalk with the trash, which they shouldn't be of course, then City Harvest is definitely NOT picking up the food.

Name: Manhattan Fruit Exchange
Address: South side of 16th Street between 9th and 10th Aves., Manhattan, NY
Description: Not for the shy, or for big groups. You need to climb onto the loading dock and root through big dumpsters, but the quantity and quality at this wholesaler make it worthwhile. Workers there are pretty friendly and tolerant, but huge trucks are coming in and out; if you are in the way you will be asked to leave.

Name: Western Beef
Address: North side of West 16th Street between 9th and 10th ave., Manhattan, NY
Description: A reader wrote us, I got 6 bags of perfectly good rotisserie chicken and friend chicken in the trash. We were there in Aug 2011 and found some stuff, mainly dairy and veggies. Messy, in mid-size dumpsters.

Name: Associated
Address:  North side of 14th Street between 7th and 8th Aves., Manhattan, NY
Description: Produce and more.

Name: Garden of Eden
Address: 310 3rd Avenue at 23rd Street, Manhattan, NY
Description: Yupscale NYC based chain that specializes in produce, prepared foods and luxury products.

Name: Zaro's
Address: 920 Broadway between 20th and 21st; dumpsters are on the south side of 21st St just east of Broadway, Manhattan, NY
Description: Tip came in from a worker there: Every night, a huge load of bread and pastries from that morning are discarded. Last night, I put out two bags of bread so heavy I could hardly lift them. I try to put the bags of clean food on the right or left side of the dumpsters rather than IN them. It's worth checking other Zaro's locations as well, including Penn Station and Grand Central.

Name: Associated Supermarket
Address: Park Ave around 22nd, Manhattan, NY
Description: mainly produce

Name: Natural Green Market
Address: 16th at 3rd Ave, Manhattan, NY
Description: health food store
Time: closes at 10:30, collects after 12:30

Name: David's Bagels
Address: 1st Avenue between 19th and 20th Streets, Manhattan, NY

Name: Gramercy Bagels
Address:  3rd Avenue and 20th Street, Manhattan, NY

Name: Manhattan Carpets
Address: South side of 23rd Street, just a few stores east of Third Avenue., Manhattan, NY
Description: Every evening, they put out large black Hefty bags full of carpet remnants – clean, unused, cut from the jobs of the day. Some pieces are large enough to cover large closets or small rooms.

Name: Whole Foods
Address: Back of store: north side of 13th St between University and Broadway, Manhattan, NY
Description: A sneaky one and has sometimes been hostile to dumpster divers. In the post-Occupy era, the compost has been moved much deeper into the indoor loading bays, so much harder to get to without being noticed or confronted.  Their stuff is in compost-type bins. Mainly it's fruits and vegetables, sometimes in remarkable quantity and excellent condition; they also dump flowers and bread in these bins.

Name: Trader Joe's
Address: South side of 14th Street between 3rd and 4th Avenues, Manhattan, NY
Description: At its best/worst,  there are mountains of citrus, nut butters, tofu products, dairy, cookies and cereals in perfect condition, cases of prepared foods with one container damaged, dozens of not even expired eggs, loads of meats. It's easiest to wait until after 10 pm, Time they roll their mini dumpsters to the curb and employees tend not to hassle dumpster divers. *Although this spot is so well known, please play nice!* It's possible to do a quick dive at almost any time that one of the containers is on the sidewalk– worth checking in the daytime if you're in the area. Lately *winter 2012* folks have been reporting finding a lot less stuff. We hope that means more is being donated. There's also a shift in worker attitude– lately even people foraging in containers next to the building have been told, you know, I'm supposed to tell you not to do this…

Name: Garden of Eden
Address: 14th Street between 5th and University, Manhattan, NY
Description: Comment a mess, all piled onto mini-dumpsters. In addition to their bags, in the dumpsters and outside Time they overflow, sometimes yielding raw meat and fish *think pet food!*, check the large rolling garbage containers, which hold all the deli hot food *a specialty of this chain; may contain cooked chickens* as well as salad bar and other produce.

Name: Petco
Address:: Union Square North and Broadway, Manhattan, NY
Description: Lots of companion animal food. *Keep in mind that carnivorous companions generally love the meat and fish fit for human consumption that all the supermarkets throw out. With a little care — don't take lukewarm animal products; wash everything in cold water and wrap in clean packaging; freeze Comment you can; use right way; always cook before you serve it– your companions need never eat overprocessed byproduct kibble again.*

Name: Bagelry
Address: 14th Street and 7th Ave, Manhattan, NY
Description: Puts out more bagels than Bagel Bob's, and sometimes Krispy Kreme donuts or salads as well

Name: Food Emporium
Address: 6th Ave below 12th, Manhattan, NY
Description: upscale supermarket chain Latest check *winter 2012* finds this place wasting plenty of produce and other goods, with stuff available– even fairly picked over — by 11pm. Very popular, because of its former hyper-wastefulness, but still seldom gets completely cleaned out, especially if you dig deep in the miscellaneous bags.

Name: Lifethyme Natural Market
Address: 6th Ave between 8th and 9th, Manhattan, NY
Description: Large health food store. Closes at 10. Not the most wasteful in the neighborhood, but still, they toss some decent stuff.  Their  black bags sometimes yield packs of nuts, vegan baked goods, dried fruit, small amounts of produce, lots of patches of cut live wheatgrass. For the intrepid, dig into the hot food bags– they empty loads of cooked organic food every night, all mixed together in big messy bags. They used to let folks take the hot food before they dumped it, but no more, sad to say.

Name: Citarella
Address: 6th Ave between 9th and 10th, Manhattan, NY
Description: Conspicuous upscale market.  For years it was impossible to find the trash. Lately *spring 2012* they're putting out mountains of plastic bags, like their less chichi competitors. Found gorgeous greens, clean and in bags by themselves, plus assorted produce in mixed mess. There were also lots of stripped fish carcasses– stew for the intrepid pescovore.

Name: Gristedes
Address: Barrow between 7th Avenue and W. 4th Street., Manhattan, NY
Description: The trash is around the corner from the market itself, next to a parking garage, across from One if By Land *fancy restaurant* and west of the trash for the apartment building. Lotsa stuff, not often seriously dived.

Name: Gristedes
Address: Bank St west of Hudson., Manhattan, NY
Description: Trash also around the corner from the market. The usual Gristedes assortment.

Name: Le Pain Quotidien
Address: 8th St just west of 5th Ave, Manhattan, NY
Description: Huge rounds of crusty whole grain sourdough bread, stays moist inside for many days after being tossed. Even on days Time the whole loaves aren't there, you'll find quarter and half loaves. Also some baguettes and occasionally sweets– muffins, croissants, scones, pain chocolat.

Name: Integral Yoga
Address: 13th Street between 7th and 8th Avenues, Manhattan, NY
Description: small health food store; no produce.

Name: Peanut Butter and Co.
Address: 3rd St. and Sullivan, below Washington Sq. Park, Manhattan, NY
Description: Peanut butter and banana sandwiches, whole grain bread, celery and carrot sticks, cups of peanut butter

Name: produce market *large, I forget the name*
Address: Carmine at Varick St., Manhattan, NY
Description: Several cartons of very good produce

Name: Agata and Valentina
Address: 64 University Place *Between 10th and 11th*, Manhattan, NY
Time: Every night after 10 PM
Description: Gourmet Food

Name: Bagel Bob's
Address: University between 9th and 10th, Manhattan, NY
Description: An East Village freegan legend; out of the many bags of plain old trash, feel for the one to three bags that contains obvious bagel and bialy shapes. Huge bags of bagels, mini bagels, bagel bits *sort of like Munchkins, but bagels*, cinnamon buns, struedels, and bialys not intermingled with other food and garbage Very popular. Don't bother on Mondays.

Name: Gristedes
Address: University between 8th and 9th Street, Manhattan, NY
Description: As of winter 2012, no trash to be seen at this formerly reliable and well-known spot. Have you figured out Address: and Time they're dumping? If so let us know., Manhattan, NY

Name: Au Bon Pain
Address: 8th Street and Mercer, Manhattan, NY
Description: Bread and pastry chain. This one tosses lots of pastries Time it closes around 11:30 pm. Also, bagels, rolls, breadsticks, etc.

Name: Gristedes
Address: Mercer St and 3rd St, Manhattan, NY
Description: fruit and other produce. Bread, hummus, dairy, eggs, packaged foods.

Name: Pain Quotidien
Address: Bleeker St. east of Broadway, Manhattan, NY
Description: Huge rounds of crusty whole grain sourdough bread that stay moist inside for many days after being tossed. Even on days Time the whole loaves aren't there, you'll find quarter and half loaves and/or sliced bread. Also some baguettes, croissants, muffins. See their store listings and let us know Comment you find at other locations.

Name: Taylors
Address: 2nd Avenue between 10th and 11th Streets, Manhattan, NY
Description: Old news: tray of sandwiches used to get thrown out every night. Can someone check if that's still the case?

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Address: 1st Avenue between 12th and 13th Streets, Manhattan, NY
Description: Not a particularly fruitful location of this serial waster.

Name: Commodities
Address: 1st Ave and 10th St, Manhattan, NY
Description: This health food store has had small but good finds recently *Jan 2013*, including produce, juice, packaged vegan salads.

Name: Lime Tree
Address: 1st Avenue and 9th Street, Manhattan, NY
Description: This is a fruit and vegetable store with loads of good produce and sometimes the day's sandwiches.

Name: Gourmet Deli
Address: East side of 1st Avenue between 8th and 9th, Manhattan, NY
Description: At last check *Jan 2013* we found produce, flowers and more at this location.

Name: Healthfully
Address: 4th Street between 1st and 2nd Avenue, Manhattan, NY
Description: Small health food store – we used to find some produce and such here, but at last check *Jan 2013* we saw no trash at 10:30 on a Monday.

Name: Produce stand
Address: Northeast corner of 1st Ave and 7th Street – at last check *Jan 2013* we saw no trash at 10:30 on a Monday., Manhattan, NY

Name: Caravan of Dreams
Address: 6th St east of 1st Ave, Manhattan, NY
Description: vegan restaurant Not much to be found, but Comment was there reported as good. Has not been checked for a while so let us know Comment you find.

Name: 4th Street Food Co-op
Address: E 4th Street between 2nd Ave. and Bowery, Manhattan, NY
Description: Some produce in the compost bin, which, as of Feb. 2012, is put out
Time: Monday, Wednesday and Friday.

Name: Houston Village Farm
Address: 1st Ave. and E 4th Street, Manhattan, NY
Description: some produce available

Name: Union Market
Address: Northeast corner of Houston and Avenue A, Manhattan, NY
Description: This chronic waster from Brooklyn has come to Manhattan, and brought bags of produce, bread and fancy packaged goods.

Name: Gourmet Garage
Address: 453 Broome Street at Wooster, Manhattan, NY
Description: This branch moved since the last time our group had checked. As of December 2012 there were small compost-type dumpsters,  empty at 10:30pm. If you're in that area frequently and know the new pattern please let us know. Here is old news *April 2012* from the location on Mercer: On trash nights, these guys seem to watch over the trash until about 9:30 p.m., and the truck seems to come by around 10:00 p.m. I know it's not much of a window, but on a recent Sunday evening, I found bagels, a mango, cottage cheeses, fresh squeezed citrus juices, expensive sausages and ham. All the refrigerated items were very cold and most items were not even expired. I didn't even look very thoroughly. Also, on a Tuesday or a Thursday night at about 9:45 p.m., I found bagels and flowers easily. The freegan group had also had good results at the old location.

Name: Dean & Deluca
Address: 450 Broadway between Prince and Spring Sts, Manhattan, NY
Description: Sushi, bread, sandwiches, fancy salads, pastries, etc., plus a bit of produce. Quantity goes up and down but some nights it's a mountain.

Name: Housing Works
Address: 126 Crosby, Manhattan, NY
Description: Clothing and books. Stuff can be pulled out at all hours of the day. Quite well known in NYC. Last time the group was there *Dec 2012*, no dumpster was present– let us know if you still find stuff there.

Name: Bari
Address: Broadway and Spring, Manhattan, NY
Description: Coffee place. On a 2012 trailblaze we found rolls and cupcakes– worth looking again.

Name: produce stand
Address: Southeast corner of Houston and Broadway, Manhattan, NY
Description: Gray barrels have compostable food.

Name: Soho Garden
Address: Prince between Mulberry and Mott., Manhattan, NY
Description: We found produce, cheese and tofu.

Name: unnamed grocery store
Address: Mulberry south of Prince St., Manhattan, NY
Description: lots of produce available here, and some other miscellaneous goods.

Name: Whole Foods
Address: Houston and Chrystie, Manhattan, NY
Description: Lately *2011-2012* everything has been behind closed doors, which was not the case in the past. If you find this changes, let us know.

Name: Finest Produce
Address: 119 Christie, Manhattan, NY
Description: This is a wholesaler. Dumpster with bulk produce; sometimes quite a lot, sometimes very little in good shape.

Name: Essex Street Market
Address: Essex between Rivington and Delancey, Manhattan, NY
Description: Large indoor market; check dumpsters in
Time: the afternoon.

Name: Economy Candy
Address: Rivington between Essex and Ludlow, Manhattan, NY
Description: Candy and nuts.

Name: Fay Da Bakery
Address: 82 Elizabeth St. between Hester & Grand, Manhattan, NY
Description: Sweet & meaty baked goods.

Name: Fay Da Bakery
Address: Mott & Canal, Manhattan, NY
Description: Sweet & meaty baked goods.

Name: Food Emporium
Address: 316 Greenwich St at Duane St, Manhattan, NY
Description: Lots of produce, meat, prepared foods, and all manner of other items in chest-high dumpsters in front of the store. Very exposed location, super wide sidewalk. Confirmed this site 3/5/12.

Name: Wichcraft
Address: 397 Greenwich St at Beach St, Manhattan, NY
Description: From a contributor, November 2011: At the end of the night, the restaurant Wichcraft throws away between 10-20 sandwiches which were made earlier in the day. They are all cold sandwiches *goat cheese, chicken salad, chickpea, tuna* and can be eaten or stored for a few days. If you go after closing *around 830 on weekdays and 530 on weekends* they will probably happily give you a bag of sandwiches. There are 10 others around the city. Confirmed this site 3/5/12.

Name: Pain Quotidien
Address: 81 West Broadway at Warren St., Manhattan, NY
Description: Huge rounds of crusty whole grain sourdough bread that stay moist inside for many days after being tossed. Even on days Time the whole loaves aren't there, you'll find quarter and half loaves and/or sliced bread. Also some baguettes, croissants, muffins.

Name: Bento Nouveau Sushi
Address: 173 Broadway at Cortland, Manhattan, NY
Description: HUGE clear garbage bags full of plastic box wrapped sushi thrown out Time they close, very easy to find.

Name: Bento Nouveau Sushi
Address:  32 Broadway between Wall and Beaver, Manhattan, NY
Description: HUGE clear garbage bags full of plastic box wrapped sushi thrown out Time they close, very easy to find.

Name: Gristedes
Address: 90 Maiden Lane, Manhattan, NY
Comment: Trash is out back on Cedar, between William and Pearl, between Liberato's pizza and a parking garage
Description: Standard grocery that is easy to get at. As of Jan 2012, lots of prepared foods on a consistent basis– roast chicken, meat-n-2-veg ready meals, hummus, produce, bread. Plus produce in more limited quantities.

Name: Duane Reade
Address: Wall Street Manhattan, NY
Comment: trash is out back on Pine near William
Description: Throws out late. As of winter 2012 being used by OWS folks meeting nearby, but check anyway; this serial waster shouldn't have any good stuff going to landfills or incinerators. There are several other Duane Reade stores in the area, bottom of Broadway, on Broad, in Battery Park City– always worth checking if you're there late at night.

Name: Jubilee Marketplace
Address: 90 John Street, Manhattan, NY
Comment: trash is on an unnamed alley off Gold St between John and Fulton
Description: The night we went, this was daunting– 2 gigantic dumpsters with a high ratio of garbage to food. More exploration would be helpful, as this seems to be a very high end grocery.

Name: Pain Quotidien
Address:  2 River Terrace *way far west, past end of Murray St*  , Manhattan, NY
Description: sure enough, bread!

Name: Gristedes
Address: 315 South End Avenue –, Manhattan, NY
Description: the usual grocery assortment produce, bread, bakery, pasta, a few sandwiches, but not lots of premade stuff

Name: Izzy & Nats
Address: 311 South End Avenue, Manhattan, NY
Description: bagels and some hash brown patties

Name: Hudson Produce
Address: 300 Albany St, 1/2 blk south of Gristedes,, Manhattan, NY
Comment: trash is on South End Ave
Description:  lots of good produce, plus flowers.

Name: Gristedes
Address: 71 South End Ave *trash on W. Thames St.*, Manhattan, NY
Description: A motherlode on our first check but we didn't stay long due to cold. Just skimming the top of the small dumpster we found cookies, cereal, lots of produce – and that was just at the top. Bring a light to explore more, as this is a pretty dark street.

Name: Pret a Manger
Address: Maiden Lane, Manhattan, NY
Description: interesting, since this chain claims they donate all of their food. We found wrapped sandwiches and boxed sushi.

Name: Hale & Hearty
Address: Maiden Lane, Manhattan, NY
Description: wrapped sandwiches.

Name: Starbucks
Address: Maiden Lane, Manhattan, NY
Description: this is generally hit or miss, but we did find some usable stuff, wholesale-size bottle of their drink mixes. Other times one can find sandwiches, salads, etc at this chain.

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Address: Maiden Lane, Manhattan, NY
Description: just about every outlet in this chain throws out donuts, bagels and other baked/fried goods. This one was no exception. If you are starving in NYC, just look around for a Dunkin D, the calories are there.

Name: Kosher market
Address: Myrtle Ave one block west of Bedford Ave, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: Regular curbside bags
Description: Comment you get: Many assorted groceries *an unfriendly dumpster diver was there Time we arrived, so we couldn't really check it out*

Name: Bakery
Address: Myrtle about a block east of Bedford, Brooklyn, NY
Description: We also found challah.

Name: Perelandra
Address: Remsen St across from Borough Hall, between Court and Clinton Sts, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: Regular curbside bags, plus cardboard boxes set to the side with most of the produce *Comment foragers don't take gets composted*.
Time: 8:45 Time all the employees leave the store. Trash is collected between 10:30 p and 12:30a. One source says nothing is out on Saturdays.
Comment: Lots of locals count on finding greens and produce in particular. Fewer go thru the bags, which contain health bread, and often assorted packaged health foods, and small amounts of bulk foods *grains, beans, nuts, coffee* that can be gleaned from the not-quite-emptied heavy brown bags.

Name: Trader Joe's
Address: Atlantic at Court, Brooklyn, NY
Description: Dumpster divers from all 4 boroughs have been known to make the trip. On some nights TJ's puts out upwards of 6 dumpsters, at least half of which are filled top to bottom with quality food. Sometimes the scene gets weirdly competitive, with dumpster divers seeming to forget that the area is packed with other wasteful stores.
Time: Lately *fall 2012*, usually not until about midnight; sometimes earlier. Be forewarned, the initial reaction of this store's management was to have the police ticket dumpster divers for trespass or littering; the situation could always take a turn for the worse.
Comment: On the south side of Atlantic Avenue near Court St in big dumpsters.
Comment You'll Find:Just about anything, depending on the night and Comment: much time you have to sort through.

Name: La Bagel Delight
Comment: Bagels and more in a double-wide storefront
Address: 90 Court St., between Livingston and Schermerhorn, Brooklyn, NY
Time: 10p
Comment:Large black bags out front.
Comment: Plenty of fresh, soft and delicious bagels of all varieties. Some sweets like scones and croissants, and a few sandwiches too.

Name: Garden of Eden
Description: Yuppie grocery
Address: 184 Montague Street, at Court, Brooklyn, NY
Time:Sunday-Friday 10p
Comment: Three dumpsters on the curb plus compost mini dumpsters.
Comment: Messy and hit-or-miss, but can yield a surprising amount of fresh vegetables,  prepared foods, yogurts and so forth. The compost bins are well worth digging down a ways, as they've yielded lots of whole fruit and veg.

Name: Gristedes
Description: Supermarket
Address: 101 Clark Street, Brooklyn, NY
Time: After 9:30p
Comment: Clear garbage bags out front.
Comment: Routinely hit or miss, but the hits can be great: dozens of eggs, bags of chocolate chips, cheese.

Name: Key Foods
Description: Grocery store
Address: Atlantic and Henry, northeast corner; also check the one on Montague between Hicks and Henry., Brooklyn, NY
Time: After 10p
Comment: Clear garbage bags on the corner curb.
Comment: Decent produce in reliable quantities. Often there are packaged vegan prepared foods at or near their sell-by date.

Name: Associated Supermarket
Address: Knickerbocker Ave at Starr St, Brooklyn, NY
Description: Wendy sez: I was there in the late afternoon, and there were several bags out. I found cocunuts, yucca, grapes, carrots, garlic, and other types of produce.

Name: Kim's Millenium Market
Address: Bushwick Avenue right off the Montrose Stop on the L train., Brooklyn, NY

Name: Caputo's Bakery
Description: Italian bakery
Address: 329 Court Street, at Sackett, Brooklyn, NY
Time: Nightly after 10p
Comment: Four garbage cans.
Comment: Excellent bread and cookies. Baker is on site all night long; move fast. Also, vegetarians beware the sausage bread.

Name: Union Market
Address: 288 Court Street *just north of Degraw*, Brooklyn, NY
Time: Sunday-Friday 9p
Comment: Black plastic garbage bags on the curb.
Description: For those on bicycle or who don't mind a little walk, this is a great alternative to the Trader Joe's at Atlantic and Court. It's a high-end supermarket mini-chain that is just far enough from other stores that it gets few dumpster divers. Finds have included loads of packaged and unpackaged bread, produce, dairy products, quarts of prepared soup *generally not vegetarian*, fancy desserts, fancy fresh pasta.

Name: Bagel World
Address: 181 Court Street, Brooklyn, NY
Time: Sunday-Friday 9p
Address: To Look: Black plastic garbage bags on the curb., Brooklyn, NY
Description: All-you-can-eat bagels in two or three bags.

Name: New Utica Produce
Address: 282 Utica Avenue, Brooklyn, NY
Description: Marsha offers this local info in March 2012: Out front features the usual assortment of vegetables, fruits, et al. They put out a wheeled trash container filled with discarded produce. During the day, this trash bin is tied tightly with twine and they wouldn't appreciate it being cut. Comment:ever, late at night, the twine is removed. I have dug through it after 10 and 11 p.m. to find it loaded with cast-off lettuce leaves, lemons, limes, oranges, mangoes, tomatoes, bananas, apples, bundles of mint, parsley, etc. The nearby cardboard boxes also often have discarded produce.  So far, the manager doesn't give me any trouble Time I dig through it so it might be worth a try for others.

Name: Brooklyn Fare
Address: 200 Schermerhorn Street *corner of Hoyt*, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: Raven reported in March 2012: The first bag we opened was FULL of nothing but packaged boxes of organic cookies, gluten free cookie, gourmet packaged tortas. It was too good not to take everything which was an unbelievable amount. So much that right now I'm going to go give some away. We must have salvaged over $200 worth of stuff, perfectly good, no expiration date, not stale food!

Name: Pathmark at
Address: Atlantic Center *on Atlantic Avenue*, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: In the produce section, employees have plastic garbage bins that they drag around and go through the produce and throw out items here and there– anything with the slightest imperfection, sometimes stuff that's completely perfect. From my experience, if you eat it in the store, no one will bother you *though it's probably wise to stay near the bin you got it from to explain Comment: you got it if an employee asks*. If you intend to take it out, put it in a bag so you don't have to explain that you aren't stealing it. If you go to the back of the store, you will find the area employees go in and out of. If you go in there, as you walk in, on the facing wall are cardboard boxes filled with items pulled from the shelves. We've found that a good way to get the stuff and not have anyone bother you is to say you need a cardboard box if an employee asks why you are there, take one of the boxes, and then just fill it with stuff from the other boxes or take it out with Commentever is in it. You can then walk right out of the store without anyone bothering you.
Time: During store hours. Probably not too early in the day, but I'm not really sure if there is a best time.
Comment: Varies widely, but including packaged and loose produce.

Name: Associated Supermarket
Address: 1413 Avenue J *north side* between E 14 and E 15 Street, very near the Ave J stop on the Q train., Brooklyn, NY
Comment: Loads of black bags of fruit and vegetables There's also generally 1 very heavy bag of raw meat that's been taken out of the packages. The managers are generally friendly but customers sometimes complain, so try to come after dark and be fairly discreet.
Time: As early as 7pm, but later means less hassle.

Name: Fruit Palace
Address: 1408 Avenue J *south side* between E 14 and E 15 Street, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: Some produce, but minimal compared to the Associated across the street.

Name: New Banana King
Address: 1123 Avenue J *north side* at E 12th Street, Brooklyn, NY
Description: As late at night as you can stand, on E 12th Street, big black plastic bags. This store stays open very late and some of the managers will diligently shoo you away. They throw out huge quantities of produce, seemingly entire cases of stuff not up to their standard. My partner and I have made gallons of cider from a single night's pickup of apples and pears, for instance. Other typical mass dumps include bananas and tomatoes. Be prepared to can, dry, freeze or ferment.

Name: Isaac's bake shop
Address: 1419 Avenue J *north side* between E 14 and E 15 Street, Brooklyn, NY
Description: Bags on the street of bread and pastries, particularly on Friday evening.

Name: Pom distributor
Address: Ash Street just west of Pulaski Bridge; look for Pom trucks inside parking lot. Dumpster is at the back of the lot., Brooklyn, NY
Description: This is the legendary juice dumpster; one editor of this site stumbled upon it in June 2012. In the late afternoon of a weekday, the gate was open and the dumpster chock full of everything from pomegranate juice to lemonade to smoothies and lattes. Everything was acceptably cool; no bottles were bloated. Some were way past pull date.

Name: Lowell Importers
Address: Greenpoint Avenue and West Street, southwest corner, Brooklyn, NY
Time: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday 9p
Description:Two dumpsters. Polish cheeses. Farmer cheese, sliced sandwich cheese, spreads, yogurts.

Name: Garden of Eden Warehouse
Address: Butler and Third Avenue, Brooklyn, NY
Time: Sunday-Friday 10p
Comment: Three to five dumpsters.
Description: Comment You'll Find: Messy with big clear bags of food waste. Some fresh produce, a little prepared food, and good sweet and savory bread.

Name: Jewish Bakery
Address: Franklin between Park and Flushing, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: Two overstuffed dumpsters.
Description: Comment You'll Find:Cakes, cupcakes.

Name: Haltzlacha Supermarket
Address: Flushing Ave at Franklin Ave, Brooklyn, NY
Description: Large kosher supermarket
Comment: Produce, baked goods, packaged snack foods, occasionally prepared salads
Time: Every Sun-Thurs night, from 8 or 9 PM to at least midnight.

Name: Union Market
Address: 754 Union at 6th Avenue *trash is on 6th*, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: 402 7th Avenue between 12th & 13th Sts
Comment: Also on Court St– see listing in Cobble Hill
Time: Sunday-Friday 9p
Comment: Black plastic garbage bags on the curb; Union St location also has compost bins.
Description: High-end supermarket mini-chain. The Union St location is brightly lit and is frequented by neighborhood dumpster divers. The south slope location is on a dark and quiet stretch and does not seem to be well known to dumpster divers. Finds at both stores *and the Court St location* have included loads of packaged and unpackaged bread, produce, dairy products, quarts of prepared soup *generally not vegetarian*, fancy desserts, fancy fresh pasta.

Name: Associated
Address: 5th Avenue and President Street, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: On 5th Avenue, but the bags are in cardboard boxes to the north side of the store entrance.
Comment: modest amount of produce in good condition.

Name: Bageltique
Description: Bagel and fast food joint
Address: 5th Avenue and Carroll, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: Regular curbside bags
Comment: A reasonable number of bagels, but mixed with a bit of paper trash.

Name: Nature Plus
Description: Convenience and some health food
Address: 5th Avenue and Park, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: Address: to Look: Regular curbside bags, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: OK, this may have been a one-time find, but I found a bunch of staples like rice, cornmeal, industrial-sized containers of spices *partially used*, a few canned goods. It could be that the store stopped doing soups or some other kind of prepared food, or the dry goods in question had been on the shelf a long time. The outsides of containers had that old stickiness like they had sat on a shelf above a stove for many moons. But worth checking back.

Name: Back to the Land
Description: Small natural foods store
Address: 142 7th Ave between Garfield and Carroll Sts, Brooklyn, NY
Time: Sunday-Friday 10p. On at least one occasion, food was still there after midnight.
Comment: Regular curbside bags
Comment: Health food store stuff; besides the regular slabs of wheatgrass and assorted greens, I found a bag full of all sorts of veg/vegan prepared foods, including packages of curry tofu, sweet and sour tofu, meatless chicken salad, macrobiotic noodle and vegetable salads, etc. Good for yogurt, eggs, and packaged goods.

Name: Key Foods
Description: Supermarket
Address: 130 7th Avenue at Carroll Street, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: 2 big dumpsters on 7th
Comment: We don't know this location very well; needs more exploration. On latest visit *Jan 2011*, some produce and bakery goods, but hard to get at. Location is super well lit, there is a lot of foot traffic and there is not much room to work, as the dumpsters are directly outside the store entrance.

Name: D'Vine Taste
Address: 148 7th Avenue, between Garfield and Carrol, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: We found cheese, bread and some tofu on the night we went.

Name: Northside Health Food
Address: Bedford & N. 8th, Brooklyn, NY
Time: Trash is usually out by 10:30
Comment: Hit or miss, but on a recent Sunday night, loads of packaged sandwiches and salads. Only two or three bags, so it's easy to check.

Name: Sunac Natural Foods
Address: N. 7th just west of Bedford Ave, Brooklyn, NY
Description: Kind of a health food 7-11.
Comment: Packaged salads, grapes, and other produce.

Name: Food Town/Williamsburg Food Market
Address:  N. 3rd just west of Bedford, Brooklyn, NY
Description: Lots of prepared foods, some produce. In November 2011 we also found lots of unopened beverages, including kambucha.

Name: Duane Reade
Address: Bedford at N. 3rd, Brooklyn, NY
Description: As of November 2011, lots of  fruit, vegetables, bread, packaged sandwiches, cooked meats and salads. Verifies Comment we've heard from locals and a contributor *Jan 2011*.

Name: The Bagel Store
Address: Bedford and N. 3rd *trash is on N. 3rd*, Brooklyn, NY
Description:We recently *November 2011* met at this store, which has a few inside tables and loud TV.  They do toss bagels, someComment erratically.

Name: Khim's Market *at least we think the trash was from there*
Address: Bedford and N. 1st *dumpsters on N. 1st*, Brooklyn, NY
Description: We found lots of produce and sandwiches, plus canned goods *including, weirdly, Hershey's syrup*.

Name: South Side Food Plaza
Description: kosher supermarket
Address: Bedford at S. 8th, Brooklyn, NY
Comment: Lots of fruits, vegetables, and snacks

Name: Food Bazaar
Address: 21 Manhattan Ave, near Lorimer J&M stop; trash in parking lot on Broadway, Brooklyn, NY
Time: Needs more exploration, but on our midweek trailblaze food was out at 10pm.
Comment: Several large dumpsters in the east corner of the parking lot, the corner farthest away from the store itself. There are gates, but left open. Veggies, herbs, fruit, meats and cheeses, junk food and more.

Name: Depanneur
Address: 242 Wythe, Brooklyn, NY
Time:  Every night
Comment: Most of the time they are not in garbage bags but in brown paper bags.
Comment: Between 5 and 20 baguettes every night. Sometimes other stuff like sandwiches.

Name: Associated Supermarket
Address: 47th Avenue between 44th and 45t, Queens, NY
Comment: they throw out a lot of good produce, including bananas.

Name: Sunnyside Pharmacy
Address: South-west corner of Queens Blvd and 40th Street–, Queens, NY
Comment: twice in the last couple weeks they've thrown out canned high energy shakes, and also packages of diapers.

Name: Newsstand
Address: Along the strip of queens blvd between 39th place and 40th street, Queens, NY
Comment: there's a news stand that throws out the New York Times every night at 9 pm.

Name: Key Food
Address: 108th Street and Liberty Ave., Queens, NY
Comment: They have a lot of fruits and vegetables, and canned items. They usually throw out things on Sundays. The store closes at 7, so from that time on, the food is ready to take.

Name: Health food store on
Address: Victory Blvd and Manor Rd –, Staten Island, NY
Comment: good place, go on Manor Rd behind the shopping center, the dumpster all the way in the back. Great finds there, especially later in the week *they collect once a week, and I don't remember Time*. Last find was several cases of packaged brownies and six Odwalla drinks.

Name: C-Town –
Address: on Forest Ave, take the 48 bus from Victory Blvd and you won't miss it., Staten Island, NY
Comment: Big dumpster full of lots of stuff.
