
Aylward’s Natural Food
342 Main Street. between Passaic and East Berry Streets
Where to Dive: One small dumpster to the immediate left of the stairs coming out the back side of the store (the side facing the parking lot on River Street).
When to Dive: Pretty much any time is fine. Store personnel hardly even leave the store, and doesn’t really bother you.
How to Dive: Be careful of the double lid on the dumpster– if you lift one side, it will lift the other and one may come crashing down on you. The safest way to do it is to completely open both covers, though I rarely bother.
What You’ll Find: Surprisingly little. This place pretty is good for the rare gem in small quantities. Finds include packs of soy cheese, a box of herbal tea, and a big container of sesame seeds.

C Town Supermarket
154 State Street
When to Dive it: During the day, they pretty much leave you alone if you reach in the dumpster but get annoyed if you climb in. They are closed at night, so you can get a lot more stuff by climbing in after hours.
Where to go: Single medium sized dumpster in the parking lot.
What you’ll find: Wide variety of items including produce, meat, packaged foods

Dunkin Donuts/Baskin Robbins
150 Passaic Street
How to Dive: Pretty good at any time until collection. Staff is totally cool, and will sometimes even bring you stuff they are going to throw out before it gets thrown in the dumpster.
Where to go: Two dumpsters right behind the store.
What You’ll Find: The obvious stuff: ice cream in large tubs (sometimes melted to about “soft-serve” consistency, sometimes not), muffins, cookies, donuts, bagels, croissants, and one big surprise– if you are lucky, you can find small vacuum sealed packs of ground coffee or 5 lb bags of coffee beans

Dunkin Donuts
25 Hackensack Avenue (I think)
Where to Dive: In the back corner of the parking lot you’ll find the dumpster.
How to Dive: Reaching in the dumpster is sufficient.
When to Dive: I went during the day and found plenty of stuff.
What You’ll Find: muffins, cookies, donuts, bagels, croissants

Hackensack Market
120 Passaic Street
How to Dive It: Depending on the employee they may ask you to leave if you dive durng the day, so its best to go after 8 or 9 PM.
Two medium-sized dumpsters behind the store.
What You’ll Find: meat, produce, prepared food and housewares.

Giant Gourmet Farmers’ Market
324 Main Street between Passaic Street and East Berry Street
THE GOLD MINE!!!
How to Dive It: If you don’t want to deal with an unsympathetic manager who will tell you to leave, go after about 9PM. If this doesn’t bother you, go between 9 or 10 AM and closing time. The later in the day, the more stuff will be there, but the dumpsters fill up so high that by the end of the day you won’t be able to access the stuff from earlier in the day without great difficulty. Fish arrives late in the day generally, fruit shows up pretty early, with more added throughout the day, and vegetables show up throughout the day. Staff usually leaves you alone and sometimes presents the best stuff to you before they throw it in the dumpster, but the owner/manager will shoo you away if he sees you. You can get to plenty of stuff by reaching into the dumpster, but you can get to a lot more if you climb into the two monster-sized dumpsters at this place.
Where to Dive: If you stand in the parking lot (on the River Street side of the store) and stand facing the store, you’ll see a fenced area with four very tall dumpsters on the right side of the parking lot– the side facing the McDonald’s parking lot. Of the four dumpsters, the two closest to the store are just cardboard. The other two dumpsters are just food.
What You’ll Find: all kinds of fruit and vegetables, lots of fish, rice, prepared fruit salad in individual plastic containers
Other — Two dumpsters worth of cardboard for all your protest sign and assorted arts and crafts needs!

Rite Aid
123 Anderson St (near the Anderson Street Train Station)
Where to Dive: Rite Aid shares a building with a chicken fast food place and a Laundromat. On the side neareast the chicken place, nearest to the Dumkin Donutes are gated fences against the wall, containing dumpsters. The dumpster closest to Dunkin Donuts is the Rite Aid dumpster
When to Dive: Pretty much any time.
How to Dive: I usually just look in, open the lid and see if there is anything.
What You’ll Find:Newspapers, word find game books, TV Guides, magazines.


Name: 7 Eleven
Where:107 Cedar Lane
What: newspapers, bread carrot and celery sticks in sealed cups with dip, muffins, bagels, etc
WhereNotes: dumpsters are to right of entrance in fenced in area. Go in with some subtlety, act like you belong and the customers will ignore you and the employeers won’t notice you.  Trash pick up is in the early morning for Teaneck businesses, so diving at night is pretty much always a safe bet. Teaneck has many strictly Kosher businesses that close before sunset on Friday and are closed during the day Saturday.

Name: Annapurna Indian Grocery
Where: 561 Cedar Lane
What: Coconuts. Not always in good shape.
Where: Go down the hill to the end of the block. Swing the corner. There is a sort of alley behind the strip of stores and it is filled with dumpsters. Walk to the farthest dumpster.
When: Stuff is out day and night, with night being the ideal time, but I have had one run in with a property manager there, so night is probably the best time to get stuff.
WhenNotes: Trash pick up is in the early morning for Teaneck businesses, so diving at night is pretty much always a safe bet. Teaneck has many strictly Kosher businesses that close before sunset on Friday and are closed during the day Saturday.

Name: Bake & Bagels Inc
513 Cedar Lane
What: Bagels, muffins, other baked goods. Fairly wide assortment of high-quality stuff.
Where: Bags loose and in plastic garbage can right by front door. Nothing there on Friday nights.
WhenNotes: Trash pick up is in the early morning for Teaneck businesses, so diving at night is pretty much always a safe bet. Teaneck has many strictly Kosher businesses that close before sunset on Friday and are closed during the day Saturday.

Butterflake
448 Cedar Lane
What: Cakes, hallah bread, etc.
Where: Two small dumpsters right next to back entrance of store (behind store).
When: Night until very early morning. Kosher, so closed on Saturday (don’t expect garbage Saturday night).

Empire Hunan II
444 Cedar Lane
What: Vegetable dumplings and other things
Where: Dumpster in parking log behind store

Hunan Teaneck
515 Cedar Lane
What: Bags of prepared, comingled Chinese food.
Where: Plastic garbage cans right in front of store
When: At night, up until about 5:30 or 6 AM.

Pizza Crave
439 Cedar Lane
What: vegetarian salad bar stuff– not lettuce and tomato salad, but Israeli salad type stuff– eggplant and chick peas and things. Lots of peeled cucumbers. Vegetable potato soup in containers. Sushi. All food is strictly kosher.
Where: Dumpster behind store, right by stairwell leading down from store to parking lot.
When: After about 9 PM weekdays, after sunset Friday night, after about 2 AM Saturday night


Rocklins
458 Cedar
What: Newspapers
Where: In the parking lot right by the back of the store. It’s the dumpster nearest to the street.
When: Definitely night and early morning, possibly anytime

Subway
559 Cedar Lane
What: lots of hero rolls
Where: behind the strip of stores, there is an alley of dumpsters. The Subway dumpster is about halfway along the row of dumpsters.
When: Evening and night.


Bagel Heaven
1150 Teaneck Rd
Bagels. Seem to not pick up daily so often older harder ones along with new ones.
Dumpster at back of parking lot behind store on right side.

Teaneck Fruit Market
Teaneck Road
lots of fruit, canned beans, cans of coconut milk, ginseng drinks, boxes of green tea. Fruit has included strawberries, apples, coconuts, watermellon canteloupe. Also veggies, including string beans. As of yet, the best dive I have found in Teaneck.

Dunkin Donuts
1406 Teaneck Rd
What: Usual Dunkin donuts assortment: Bagels, muffins, donuts, etc
Where: Dumpster behind shopping center (furthest dumpster out from shopping center)

Teaneck Road Hot Bagels
976 Teaneck Rd
Dumpster against back wall of store
LOTS of bagels in the dumpster behind the store

Beyond Dumpsters– an apple tree
On Palisade Ave just past Cedar Lane in the direction of Route 4 on the left side of the street. Yes, an actual apple tree. Litters apples into the street, down the hill its on, onto the sidewalk, etc. Really good apples. Just watch out for insects on the apples.

Oradell

Ronnie’s Hot Bagels & Cafe
296 Kinderkamack Rd
Lots of bagels in garbage bags in dumpster in parking lot behind store, near wood fence.

River Edge

Dunkin’ Donuts
101 Midland Ave
What: The usual Dunkin Donuts stuff– muffins, bagels, donuts, etc.
Where: Dumpster in surrounded by picket fence in parking lot.
How: Picket fence has an easy access door. I recommend entering fence and shutting door behind you to avoid making a spectacle of yourself and drawing heat from management. They may not even mind (Dunkin Donuts managers often don’t), but why risk it?

Wayne

Trader Joe’s 1172 Hamburg Tpke
Where: With back side of store to your back, walk straight. Dumpsters are in fenced area on the right(fence is open).
What: Lots and lots and lots really good whole grain bread. Pies. Meat stuff (yuck). Cookies. Nuts. Fresh Fruit (cranberries and bananas). Tofu. Hummus. Precut packaged salads. Fresh salsa. Vegan, sugar-free, whole grain muffins.
When: All night after about midnight.

Waldenbooks
Hamburg Tpke & Berdan Ave
What: Magazines, comics.
Where: everything from the shopping centers is co-mingled in one set of dumpsters, some within and some just outsider a chainlink fenced area (the fence is open). The Waldenbooks stuff, from my experience, is in the dumpster in the fenced area.
How: Magazines and comics are in cardboard boxes.
When: Any time of night

Dunkin Donuts
Hamburg Tpke (near Berdan Avenue)
What: Muffins, donuts, bagels, etc.
Where: Big dumpster right behind store.
When: Any time of night

Papa John’s
1204 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, NY 11553 (Hempstead Turnpike & Gilroy Ave)
Best days to go are Saturday, Sunday and Monday when the store closes after 2 am. Dumpster is behind the building on Gilroy Ave. The store throws out entire pizzas still in the box, and the pizzas are usually on top of the dumpster.

ew to You thrift store at Grant and Delevan
free Panera (bread) products every Tuesday

Aldi – across from Lasalle train station
great produce, eggs, bread, packaged foods – best time is between 11pm and 7am

A couple of older listings (Buffalonians, please let us know if they’re still accurate!)

Elmwood Bagel
783 Elmwood Ave
At this location, one can actually find a milkcrate left by other freegans to stand on. Bring a flashlight! Over 5 double bagged garbage bags filled to the brim with an assortment of bagels made fresh that morning! But hurry before someone gets all the blueberry!

Lexington Co-op
807 Elmwood Ave
Wait until they’re closed. They have tons of freshly made and wrapped salads and sandwiches for vegans and vegetarians.

Charlotte, NC

Sent to us by someone who grew up there:
Trader Joe’s
The only Trader Joe’s we have ever had any luck with was the southernmost one on Rea Rd. the other either had compactors or nothing that we got. The one on Rea rd is pretty awesome though – we have gotten over a case of wine total there, tons of chocolate, and some produce. Their dumpster is in a compare corral but it is not locked and a little ways away from the actual building.
Bread Smith
Hwy 160 Fort Mill, SC (suburb of Charlotte)
ALWAYS has TONS of delicious bread. It is so easy that my dad goes! there are all kinds plus dessert breads and they are high quality. They are closed on Sunday but still have bread in their dumpster then, so my dad goes then so he won’t get caught, but you can go whenever. Dumpster located in a dumpster corral.

Charleston, SC

Sent to us by a long time resident:
Vegetable Bin
96 Spring St
Lots of good produce
Earth Fare
74 Folly Rd.
Usually has apples and potatoes, but some digging around is required; other produce frequent. Also, they throw away things that get returned to them so we have gotten lots of canned items and such. Sushi also regular, but we only ever trusted the vegetable sushi. Afterwards, hop on over to Normandy Farms across the street in the same plaza area and get some bread, not always the best but worth a look.
World Market
Near the Citadel Mall
We never got anything good here, but we knew people who said they always got lots of good stuff. We did get some candy canes and marzipan at different times.
Trader Joe’s
Mt. Pleasant
Now has a locked dumpster corral, but it is possible to climb over (not easy to do and there is a no trespassing sign). Not as good as it used to be, but can usually get a solid box of food out of it. Mainly produce, some other items. They dump their stuff late, around 1 or 2 o’clock, so don’t go earlier.

CHICAGO, IL

Food Not Bombs The Rogers Park chapter has been a staple for a few years now and is managed by Loyola Students.  Every Sunday at 3pm in the United Church of Rogers Park (non-denominational/anti-war) the group feeds about 50 families.  They always need help with transport from the Lakeview Whole Foods to the church on Friday and Saturday nights. Contact Jack, info(at)ethicallyengineered(dot)com, for more info.

We’ve heard the info below is hopelessly out of date. Anyone want to try their hand at updating it? We’d be grateful!

Einstein Bros Bagels is replenished more or less daily. A lot of vegan bagels. These two are the only ones I know fer shure that you can dumpster:
2212 N Clybourn Ave, 3420 N Southport Ave

Whole Foods: 1000 W North Ave. Very eclectic dumpster. wide ranging and random.

Stanley‘s Produce: 1558 N Elston Ave. I’ve heard that if you go there at 7:00 in the morning, they’ll give you free produce. They have one of those small trash compactors, so, while they do throw out a lot of good produce, the selection is limited to just whatever is within arms reach.

D’Amato’s Bakery: 1332 W Grand Ave.  Yer basic bakery. D’Amatos makes some good old school shit. Fer shure try to get yer hands on some of their foccacia.  They have four dumpsters.  If the ones in the alley are empty, check out the ones in the parking lot.

Trader Joe’s: 3745 N Lincoln Ave. Amazing dumpster. They have a fence around the dumpster area, but it’s very easy to go over it, under it, or around it.  Hard to dumpster here, because they often work all night. They don’t like divers, so don’t let them see you.

Edmar’s: 2019 W chicago.  Produce. Lower quality than stanley‘s, but much more quantity.

Red Hen Bakery: The dumpster is behind the bank at Damen, Milwaukee and North. It’s just bread. Nothing real special.

Panera bread: 2070 N. Clybourn. Again, it’s just bread.
——————————————————————————————–
Suburbs:
Just look up a suburban trader joes and hit em up.  They never lock their dumpsters.

OAK PARK AND BERWYN:

Pan Foods: Oak Park Ave. and Harrison st, oak park. Produce. Off and on.

Great Harvest: Lake st. and Oak Park Ave. Awesome organic healthy bread bakery. They have amazing bread. Dumpster is sometimes locked. If you go into the store, they’ll give you a free sample slice of whatever.

Egg Store: 7065 Cermak Rd, Berwyn, IL (It’s at the strip mall at Cermak and Harlem. While you’re there, check out the beautiful sculpture of cars impaled on a giant spike.). Very prolific produce dumpster.  Medium quality. Mostly produce, but also some fancy healthy vegan bagels and bread on occasion.  Baltic Bakery breads pretty frequently.
————————————————–

Dominicks and Jewel: Shitty supermarkets. Worth checking out their dumpsters if you’re near there. Just look em up on maps.google.com .

Aldi: Very low quality, but usually a lot of stuff in their dumpsters.  Look em up, too many of em to list.

Cincinnati, OH

Panera Bread
9530 Colerain Avenue
Cincinnati, OH 45251
What You’ll Find: lots of bagels and french bread

Panera Bread
5555 Glenway Avenue
Cincinnati, OH 45238
What You’ll Find: lots of bagels and french bread

Trader Joe’s – Kenwood
7788 Montgomery Road
Cincinnati, OH
(513) 984-3452
Across the street from Taco Bell
Open daily from 9a-9p
What You’ll Find: produce such as salad, tomatoes, tangerines. lots of cheese if anyone wants to touch the stuff. some packaged bread. yogurt. apple butter. pizza dough.

Marietta, Ohio

Many thanks to Dylan R., who sent us this info in March 2009:

Note that the major grocers in Marietta (i.e. Kroger, IGA, Giant Eagle) have no accessible dumpsters. They tend to use compactors.

Salvation Army Thrift Store
175 Post St, Marietta, OH 45750
What you’ll find: I’ve had a lot of success pulling a variety of things out of their dumpster, including shoes, old books, stuffed animals, CDs, and other interesting trinkets. It’s hard to know when they empty it, but it was full early Thursday morning.

East of Chicago Pizza Company
111 Pike St, Marietta, OH 45750
What you’ll find: They throw out tons of Hot-N-Ready pizzas; I found about 15 of them when I looked. The rest of the dumpsters behind this shopping center are worth a look as well.

Aldi
708 Pike St, Marietta, OH 45750
What you’ll find: a lot of produce; I found many heads of lettuce, grapes, Oreo snacks, broccoli, and tomatoes. Much more full on some nights than on others.

Tim Horton’s
118 N 7th St, Marietta, OH 45750
What you’ll find: A safe bet for some freshly-discarded bagels. Reaching the dumpster is tricky, however; the store is open and staffed all night long and the dumpsters are behind an unlocked gate clearly visible from the store’s back window. I crept in when the employees went to clean the kitchen.

Wal-Mart Supercenter
804 Pike St, Marietta, OH 45750
What you’ll find: Wal-Mart itself keeps all its waste in a trash compactor, but the other stores in this shopping center are ideal for dumpstering. I found a broad assortment of items including food, shoes, and toys.

Indianapolis, IN

A few sites from a local forager:

Kroger
at 3 locations:
– Glendale
– 5911 S. Madison, at E. Edgewood Ave.
– Greenwood

Save-A-Lot
at 31 and National

Lansing, Michigan

In Lansing, Michigan, the Better Health Store has a nice dumpster, out of the way behind the store, and they throw away lots of organic breads and produce, cheeses and chips, as well as the occasional expensive cosmetic item, like organic lotion.

Address: 305 N Clippert St, Lansing, MI

Minnetonka, MN

Breadsmith
Plymouth Rd./Ridgedale Dr., Minnetonka, MN
Type of Venue: Bread Store/Bakery
Bags or dumpsters? Dumpsters
Where is the trash? In back inside wooden pen
What can you find there? Bread, Bagles, Cinnamon Rolls, Bread,
When is the best time to look? after 7pm
When is too early or too late? look after the bread store has closed, they will throw out their extra bread at the end of the day
What are the best/worst days to go there? worst-8am, delivery men who will yell at you
Anything to watch out for? shares a dumpster with a paint store, so inspect all food well prior to eating
Expect friendly/unfriendly owners/managers? not the nicest of guys, so don’t let them see you

Tulsa, OK

Lee’s Bicycles
81st and Memorial
What you’ll find:
Bicycle parts, and occasionally, entire bicycles. Lee’s has no problem with you removing their trash. I’ve rescued everything from complete road bikes to bike computers, pedal clips, wheels, tires, and an unbelievable number of inner tubes in near perfect condition. Not to mention the cardboard shipping boxes that can be reused for projects. Trash pickup is on Thursday morning, so best time to visit is Sunday through Tuesday. The alley with the dumpster is very narrow, so it’s best to pull in from Memorial, as their dumpster is the first one. You can back right up to it rather than pulling in forward and having to navigate the narrow alley on your way out.

Boulder, CO

Thanks to a freegan who lived in Boulder for the summer and submitted this report. If you know more, please send ’em on to ask@freegan.info.

Wild Oats
303 Marshall Rd., Superior CO 8002, about 5 miles out of Boulder, right at the intersection of McCaslin and Hwy 36. Enter the dumpster from the sidewalk near the offramp of 36. The back door to the store is about 50 feet away from the dumpsters, but in plain view.

It was without a doubt the easiest food I have ever ‘shopped for’. It is packed with vegetables and fruit, bread, and the occasional miscellaneous. It is a composting dumpster, so everything in it is technically edible, although some of it’s gross. THIS DUMPSTER WAS AWESOME!

When? Sundays at 9 or ten o’clock pm (around closing time) are the best by far. I went a bunch of times all summer, and Friday was the only day where I found close to nothing.

Fort Collins, CO

Many thanks to David, who send in lots of great info in April and May 2012:
Walmart
1250 E Magnolia, off of Lemay north of Mulberry.
Look in the brown garbage bins in the back (N side of building) – there is always tons of decent produce. Usually there is a grouping of empty bins and a grouping of full ones.
The Vitamin Cottage
4318 S College
Throws away good food, but it’s hit or miss. I’ve had more luck at the VCs in Denver and Lafayette.
Bed, Bath and Beyond
110 W Troutman
Often has nice home furnishings in the dumpster.
Pizza Casbah
126 W Laurel
There’s an occasional pizza at night in the dumpster in the alley, though I’ve come up empty-handed more often than not.
Little Caesars
1720 W Mulberry
Get there right before they close at 10 and they might just give you many pizzas. I’ve heard this is a very good spot.
Big City Burrito
510 S College
Arrive about 10 minutes before they close at 10 and tell them you want leftovers – they’ll give you a bag of salty potatoes and rice, and sometimes veggies. This always works but there may be competition.
Panhandler’s Pizza
1220 W Elizabeth
Go right after close (10) to dumpster behind building. They’re usually kind enough to just put pizza on the top of the garbage!
Gib’s bagels
2531 S Shields
Brand Spankin’ Used
227 S College – dumpsters in alley in the back
Various businesses dump here, lots of miscellania from the thrift store, as well as office supplies, bagels too. Probably the best spot in Old Town.
And there is a Food Not Bombs 24/7 drop off/pick up garage near Old Town, but you have to ask people in the know to get the address.

Denver, CO area

We received this tip in Feb 2012. We’d LOVE to have more info on what’s going on in the Denver area.

Krispy Kreme
7514 E. Parkway Drive
Lone Tree, Colorado
From a worker there: “We throw out AT LEAST 46-140 DOZEN doughnuts every day! I hate how much is being wasted, because the doughnuts are perfectly fine! I’d be glad to know someone else was still able to use them.”



Grand Forks, North Dakota

While locals to the Red River Valley are generally familiar with the seasons, it’s worth mentioning most wild/edible plants do not appear between late September and late March due to extreme temperatures, and considerable snowfall. For the same reasons (and considering wind chills), urban foraging in winter (especially at night) can be very uncomfortable or downright difficult.

Many local businesses (particularly the Co-op) actively work to prevent waste of food through donations to the Mission and other charity organizations. Farmers will often distribute their excess produce via social networks and churches. A good way to get free produce is to offer help in gleaning the fields during harvest time.

Information and resources on reducing/consuming otherwise wasted food/commodities/items can be found by talking to the employees at Amazing Grains (the Co-op) next to the Sorlie bridge on Demers ave downtown. They are very helpful and friendly.

Dumpster diving meetups can be planned here: http://dumpsterdiving.meetup.com/cities/us/nd/grand_forks/

When scavenging for non-food items, the Grand Forks freecycle.org network is often very active (http://groups.yahoo.com/group/grandforksfreecycle/). The city also has Spring Cleanup Week during the first week of May, where residents put sometimes massive amounts of trash by the curb for the city to remove free of charge. Berm-foraging is widely practiced and locally publicized. For large items, it is socially correct to ask the resident before taking it. Electronic items can sometimes be found, but ones with cords cut off mean the item is broken or dangerous. The type of trash found in the berms varies year to year with 2008 seeing a lot of toilet seats, then furniture/broken electronics in 2009. Avoid or be wary of scavenging from piles that have water-damaged items. The sour smells and mold content embedded in items previously under the same roof since the Flood of 1999 are usually not worth saving.

When urban foraging options are scarce, the next option is wild foraging.

Wild onions or field garlic can be found alongside roads or in open public lands. The plants can be identified with a handbook available at the library off of South Washington near K-mart, and when leaves are crushed they smell strongly of onion/garlic. Look for these between June and September. They can be found often along the Greenway.

Dandelions mature and are good from May until September, or the first frost. Toward the end of summer they become somewhat bitter but are not inedible. These can be found almost anywhere, but a good rule of thumb to avoid pesticides is offering (ahead of time) to pull the plants out of yards. Most residents will appreciate the free weed removal and (if asked) will let you know if the plants/yard has been treated.

Sugar beets are common, particularly in summer and fall. They literally litter the streets during harvest, when they fall from the beet trucks onto the road. Prepare them like any other beet, but be aware that they are very different from commercial red beets (aside from being enormous) in flavor.

Day (tiger) lilies can be found in places like University Park (University and N 25th st) and Lincoln Drive Park (Euclid ave, off of 10th ave S going east), and in moist areas along the Red River from July to September. They can also be found sometimes along rural roads. Virtually all parts of the plant are edible but the flowers are most widely used.

Henbit Deadnettle flowers in June/July and often colors fields purple. A common lawn weed, the tops of flowering plants are the most palatable. Leaves are eaten like salad greens.

Mountain mint (related to spearmint) can occasionally be found in fields, roadsides and rurally along the Red River. The leaves smell strongly when crushed, generally indicating you have the right plant.

Yellow sorrel can be found in grass everywhere from late June to September. Eat in moderation as an accent to other foods, rather than by itself.

Clover can be found everywhere and is good from May until frost. Leaves can be eaten raw but are easier to digest when cooked.

Pine needles and oak leaves are available throughout summer and mid-fall. Most pines seem to grow from Aurora Medical Park on S Washington toward the west (farmers and landscapers use them against wind erosion), while many oaks are toward the river near Lincoln Drive Park and along the Greenway. Needles/leaves aside, you can always eat the pine nuts/acorns raw or cooked.

Juniper berries can be eaten in moderation or as a spice when ripe (blue-black color). Find these trees where you would pines and other evergreens. They are usually ripe in the fall.

Lilacs are everywhere (widely used for wind and erosion control) from late June to late August. Eat the flowers as part of a salad or use it to flavor foods. Empty residential lots and public areas, particularly around 44th ave S or Gateway Dr, are good places to look. Branches hanging over fences along sidewalks also count as public property. Find these in the neighborhoods near the Kennedy bridge on Gateway Dr or going south through the residential areas of East Grand Forks.

Fruit trees drop fruit usually mid-August. A decent apple tree grows near the Ramada Inn and Visitor’s Bureau off Gateway dr on N 43rd st. The apples are small but flavorful and on public property. Gleaning fallen apples in the afternoon allows bees to eat and calm down, making the harvest safer and easier. Crabapples, though smaller and more tart, can also be found in the area.

Update from Sept 2011:

Independence Park: 5th Ave. S and S 12th St– small area off Demers Ave near the Smiley water tower
What you’ll find:  The city plants flowers and some edible plants with the expectation people can/will take some if they need it. In late summer and mid-fall (Aug-Oct) there are apples and rhubarb every year. Sometimes the strawberry patch produces fruit, but this is hit or miss. The patch has so many runners that a person can take cuttings for a home garden and not spoil the park or the mother plant. Later in the season the city sometimes plants ornamental (but still edible) hot chilies and/or kale.
Note: The rule of the park is to not take everything. Harvest what’s ripe or would otherwise waste and clean up what’s no longer good (there’s a compost bin next to the park) to help better the garden for others. If a heavy frost or snow is imminent within the next day, taking more than normal is considered acceptable.

University Park: University Ave and N 23rd St
What you’ll find: Kale and rose hips in fall, lilies and other edible flowers in summer. Mid-September is Potato Bowl and there’s a festival in the park featuring free french fries. You can wait in line for fresh ones, or also a lot get wasted by people who eat a few and discard the rest of the container in the grass.
Note: Go after dusk to avoid harassment from students. Don’t take everything, harvest what’s ripe and tidy up what’s already gone bad.

Urban Development Office: 1405 1st Ave N, along the sidewalk
What you’ll find: Apple trees, huge crab apples and small, super-sweet plums.
Note: If you’re going for a haul larger than what can fit in your hands or pockets, they prefer you come after hours. This is the best time anyway, since bees are most active (and thick here) during the day.

Northern Plains Potato Growers (East Grand Forks, MN): 420 Us Bus. Hwy 2 (Demers from ND side), corner of 5th Ave NE
What you’ll find: Depending on the season, more potatoes than the average person sees in a lifetime. Harvest time is mid-fall, so look for the most excess during September and October. Dumpsters are visible from the 5th Ave NE side.

Lincoln Drive Dog Park: 13th Ave S/Lincoln Dr, first left inside the park then straight down the hill
What you’ll find: Apples
Note: Tree’s at the end of the small dog park. Doesn’t overlap the fence, so there’s minimal risk of dog waste contamination.

Demers Ave along S Columbia exit ramp
What you’ll find: A big patch of sumac berries, typically in late Aug through mid-Sept.

Throughout town, July-Aug
What you’ll find: Cherry plums. These trees are hard to miss– they’re the only ones with distinctive, red-purple leaves. The berries are small (not good for casual eating due to pits) but great for making jelly/preserves/sauces.
Tips for getting extra apples: Friends, neighbors or coworkers more than likely have at least one tree among them. Many people don’t do anything with their trees and the rotting fruit becomes a nuisance. A great way to get apples is to advertise (word of mouth or flyer) your services in apple removal. It’s not unusual to get 50lbs+ from one tree, so a good strategy is offering to donate part of your haul to charity. You get fruit, feed the hungry, and the tree owners don’t have to deal with bees eating the fallen fruit.

Charities that accept food donations:
Northlands Rescue Mission — 420 Division Ave
EGF Food Shelf — 1715 3 Ave NW (East Grand Forks)
Emergency Food Cupboard — 219 S 4 St
Salvation Army — 1600 University Ave
St Vincent De Paul — 620 8 Ave S
Supplementary Food Program for Seniors — 1013 5 St N

Arizona

From a contributor in Arizona in Jan 2011:

New Frontiers in Flagstaff, AZ
Go at night once they have closed, there is a main dumpster that you can creep in, but you gotta be cautious because the exit for the police station goes right next to the can… never had any trouble though, also as a bonus… there is a compost bin that they donate to farmers and people like ourselves which is located (if facing the dumpster) maybe about 60 feet behind the dumpster next to the building.

Trader Joe’s in Scottsdale, AZ
Frank Lloyd Wright and 78th st – for this one you have to go around 11pm, one worker caught me at about 10pm but nothing came of it, we just parted ways, me with 30lbs of organic apples in tow…

There is another located on Scottsdale and Lincoln, as a bonus it has a an AJ’s which is a bourgeois grocer nearby. I went to the TJs in the day and was caught, but it seems doable anyways since the trash is so offset from the store, also, i snagged some stuff from AJ’s, but there was not a lot of time to explore, I am sure at night these would yield a serious bounty….

Folks living in Tempe can just hop on the 72 N and ride to both of these locations, as the 72 N goes down Scottsdale Road day and night… but it’s only a 20 mile bike ride, so, it’s easy to tough out as well–

I found another AJ’s on camleback and 44th and another one on camleback and 2nd st. (ish) good food. There’s lots of pizza places everywhere too, i don’t know, I doubt many people care about arizona, sadly, it is a place that could really use a radical base as the border racism is rampant and cop protests would be surely justified.

San Francisco

A lot of dumpsters are locked up in San Francisco because there have been foragers for decades. Some stores have even added compactors to counter divers. How dare people eat waste for free instead of support a wasteful system!

Here’s a few we’ve gotten from readers in the bay area:

House of Bagels on Geary and 13th
Shit tons of bagels just left out. We fed a house of five breakfast for a month by freezing the

Safeway dumpster is one block east of 15th St and Potrero.

SemiFreddie’s, 4242 Hollis Street in Emeryville. They dump day old bread in the morning.

Food Not Bombs serves at UN Plaza Mon-Thurs at 6:30pm-7:00pm and Fri at 16th and Market at 6:00pm.

If you know of additional spots available, please email us!


Orange County, CA

Trader Joe’s
throughout the county
What You’ll Find: LOTS of bags of potato chips

Seattle

Thanks to Seattle freegans for these tips. If you know more, please send ’em on to ask@freegan.info.

Trader Joe’s
University district location
4555 Roosevelt Way NE
The best time to hit this dumpster is between 10:30 and 11:30. I’ve spoken with an employee and he says they generally take the garbage out around 10:30 or 11. They often leave out food they consider to be salvageable behind the dumpster. The dumpster is located to the left of the parking garage, to the right of a gym. Recent finds have included several pounds of zucchini, a package of artichokes, a case of Hansen’s natural soda, etc.

Essential Baking Company
1604 N. 34th St.
March 2010 update: we got a tip that this company has moved their baking operations to Georgetown, so the 34th Street dumpsters are no longer there. Anyone who has checked on the dumpsters at their new location, please let us know!

Pioneer Organics
8 S. Idaho Street
The new address came from a worker at the store in summer of ’07. A comment from NWDumpsterDivers : “Pioneer Organics always has fairly full dumpsters though you may have to dig through some boxes. Put them back nicely! Good almost any time of week.”

City People’s
2939 E Madison St.
“You can find all kinds of good plants at this nursery. It’s a high end nursery in madison valley,
so they end up tossing some really nice plants. Really, I have a full herb garden from here!
The neighborhood is pretty quiet, so don’t park in the lot or make too much noise so we can all enjoy! Pretty irregular, but when it’s good its really good.”

Produce Market
23rd ave S and Rainer
Piles older produce outside on the west side during the day. Some of the vegies looked to be in fine shape.

Cinerama
2100 4th Ave at Lenora, close to Westlake Mall and Seattle Center
From a worker:  “You can always go inside and ask for some free stuff that I know for a fact are thrown away every day. At around 11:00 every morning and ask if you can have some of the cupcakes they’re getting rid of.  At around midnight you can also come by and ask for whatever popcorn they’re going to throw away and they can put it in a huge trash bag for you (chocolate popcorn, regular popcorn, or mixed). I don’t know if this helps at all, but I do work there and want to help curb the insane amount of waste that occurs there daily. The staff would be more than happy to help these items not go to waste. I’m glad it will be used as a resource!”

Free Food Markets
There are Saturday and Sunday free markets stocked with supermarket and coop “leftovers”, that would otherwise be thrown away. Amazing initiative from Seattle Food Not Bombs and others. See their page for more info.

City Fruit
No, this isn’t dumpstering but check it out anyway. City Fruit works to be sure that fruit that would otherwise drop to the ground and spoil gets harvested, and the trees get some love as well. They’ve also put together a fruit tree map that you can add to. As they say, don’t pick fruit without asking.

Tacoma, WA and nearby

Tacoma

Marlene’s Market and Deli
2951 S 38th St
“I used to work in produce at Marlene’s. Out back they have several organic food waste bins, some with good stuff. Also, if you go in and ask someone in the produce dept. if there’s anything they can give rather than throw away they’ll usually say ‘yes.’ However, don’t call and ask for stuff. The management is as lame as the employees are cool.”

Puyallup

Safeway
611 South Meridian, next to the library
Loads of whole-wheat bread and bagels.

Vermont

Hannaford
Some Hannaford stores have a line of trash bins in the back filled with mostly produce, and occasional bread and baked goods.

Lake Champlain Chocolates
65 Church St
Burlington

Klinger’s Bakery
10 Farrell St
South Burlington


Vancouver, BC

JJ Beans Coffee-house, Stuart’s Bakery, Deep Dish Pie Shop, Island Pizza

Granville Island Market is the best spot for diving in Vancouver. The market closes at 7:00 pm. The businesses in the market stress the freshness of their products – which means there’s a lot of waste. They can’t charge a premium price for a bruised apple – so it gets tossed.

Show up at 6:55 at JJ Beans coffee-house for a free cup of coffee – bring you own cup or thermos. Step outside, cross the street and grab a seat on the bench beside the two green dumpsters.

Stuart’s Bakery bags up all the left-over baking from the day and leaves the bags on the bench for us so we don’t have to get into the dumpster. There’s usually white, whole wheat bread, but often sesame challah (egg bread), muffins, cinnamon loaves. One time the clerk brought out a large plate with left-over pastries cut up into small pieces. From time to time we get a deep dish pie. Last week a bananna cream pie.

Around 7:30 the clerk from the pizza shop drops by with a box containing the left-over pizza slices: Hawaiian, Mediterranean, Pepperoni, Pepperoni and cheese.

La Baguette

Head over to Triangle Square (50 feet away) to La Baguette ( a French Bakery). They have up to 5 bags a day of artisan loaves, french baguettes, and buns of left over. Grab a bag and carry it across the street to the Market Building where it’s divided up. The owner of the bakery is a very decent guy. Last Friday he passed us a bag of chocolate eclairs still warm from the oven to share. Heaven. On rare occasions there are left over sandwiches.

Sydney, Australia

CL Pastry
8 Bridge Road
They throw out lots of food on Thursdays.
