
Name: Bravo Supermarket
Location: Broadway near 181st
Summary: Good selection of produce, includes some Latin American specialty items

Name: Mike’s Bagels
Location: 4033 Broadway at W 168th Street


Name: Morton-Williams
Location: Broadway and 115th Street.
Summary: When I’ve gone the staff have been in the process of throwing stuff out, so 9 or 9:30, and they were friendly enough about letting us dive away. It’s a very busy corner, and well-lit, so its high-profile dumpster diving, not for the shy.
When: 9:30PM, every

Name: D’Agostino
Location: Broadway and 110th Street.
What:  Groceries
When:9:30PM, every
TimeNotes: I’m not sure what the best time is, but I think 9-9:30 is when I’ve had good luck there.

Name: Absolute Bagel
Where: Broadway and 108th St.
What: The usual bagel abundance, plenty fresh.
Time:  9PM, Every

Name: Garden of Eden
Where: Broadway between 108th and 109th Streets.
Summary: One of the best diving sites in the city‚Äîsuper-high end fresh produce in huge plastic barrels, bags of fresh-made packaged entrees, loose buffet bar food, lots more. Enormous volume. Lots of exotic produce. You’ll find stuff there from 9:30 or 10 on.
When: 9PM, Every

Name: Silver Moon Bakery
Where: Broadway and 105th Street
When: 9PM, Every 
Summary: We found meat and cheese sandwiches as well as
Name: Hot and Crusty
Where:  Broadway at 105th St, and between 87th and 88th Sts.
Summary: All the bready stuff– muffins, pizza slices, rolls, croissants, etc. We had more luck with the store in the 80s.
When: 9PM, Everybread.

Name: Hot and Crusty
Where:  Broadway at 105th St
Summary: All the bready stuff– muffins, pizza slices, rolls, croissants, etc. We had more luck with the store in the 80s.
When: 9PM, Every


Name: Hot and Crusty
Where:  Broadway between 87th and 88th Sts.
Summary: All the bready stuff– muffins, pizza slices, rolls, croissants, etc. We had more luck with the store in the 80s.
When: 9PM, Every



Name: Gristedes
Where: Broadway and 103rd St.
Summary:  Normal supermarket stuff, although we didn’t find much produce. Lots of eggs and bread though.

Name: Health Nuts
Where: Broadway between 98th and 99th Sts.
Summary: We found mostly prepared foods, some vegetarian and vegan, some not.

Name: Gary Null’s Uptown Whole Foods
Where: Broadway and 89th Street
Summary: Produce, pretty much. Food’s out by 10:30 pm, perhaps earlier.
When: 10:30PM 

Name: Barzini’s
Where: Broadway between 90th and 91st
Summary: Lots of good produce.

Name: Supersol
Where: Amsterdam betwen 85th and 86h, west side
What:  Kosher supermarket. On 2 trips, we found many non-vegan protein staples not often found elsewhere, such as whitefish and cheese, plus dry macaroni, etc.

Name: Godiva
Where: Broadway at 84th Street
What: Often throws out fancy quality strawberries that they dip in chocolate. Sometimes chocolate as well.

Name: Barnes & Noble
Where: Broadway at 82nd Street
Summary: Barnes & Noble recently instituted a country-wide recycling policy, so their dumpster may no longer hold loads of “stripped” magazines and paperbacks. Direct reuse is always more resource-efficient than recycle, so if the books are still there it’s worth saving them. In the past we have also occasionally found sealed boxes of hardcover books at this location. If you’re in the neighborhood, please check and let us know what you find. Boxcutter recommended.

Name:  Gracefully
Where: 65th and West End Avenue
Summary:  On a first run (October 2012), we found cheese packs, individual drinks, hotdogs, sushi, packaged and unpackaged produce,  and more. Worth further exploration.
Wh

Name: Western Beef
Where: West End Avenue on 62nd Street ,
SpaceNotes: dumpster against the building on 62nd
Summary: On a first run (October 2012), plentiful packaged and unpackaged produce, some non-perishables (like crackers). Worth further exploration.

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Summary: Reliable source of high-fat, low nutrition calories.
Where: E 86th St near 1st Ave

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Where:  E 92nd & Lex
Summary: Reliable source of high-fat, low nutrition calories.

Name: Key Food
Where: 2nd Avenue and 92nd Street, in the Rupert Towers building
Summary: On our first foray, we found only some shrink-wrapped produce, plus local street people hanging out seemed hungry. If folks find more another time, please email us.

Name: Eli’s Vinegar Factory
Where: 91st between 1st and York
Summary: In the past we’ve found this store continuously throwing away recycling dumpsters full of bread every day. At 11pm on Jan 2, 2012, we found nothing.

Name: Patak’s (Gourmet Deli)
Where: Madison Avenue between 89th and 90th Streets
Summary: Lots of black bags, but comparatively little good food. Some pre-made sandwiches and bread.

Name: Gristedes
Where: Lexington Avenue and 89th Street
Summary: Dairy and eggs galore, a little not-so-great quality produce.

Name: C Town
Where: 1st Ave between 88th and 89th St
Summary: Accessible supermarket food (produce, dairy, etc), athough on 1/2/12 we found very little that was useable.

Name: Elm Health & Pharmacy
Where: 1st Ave at 88th St
Summary: Deserves more checking; let us know what you find. On a trailblaze in 2011 we found a huge amount of organic packaged goods– but we could have stumbled upon a once-a-quarter shelf emptying. When we came back in early 2012, there was loads of yogurt, including soy and almond milk varieties, but every container had had a hole cut in it and the bags were a complete mess.

Name: Food Emporium
Where: 87th St near 2nd Avenue
Summary: Possibly date driven, but we found absurdly abundant quantities of food, from the usual produce and bread to significant amounts of meat and dairy (including undamaged milk and cream), and some packaged goods and flowers. Mostly in bins and on plastic-wrapped pallets on the side of the store (87th St). As of last check (Jan 2013) we found huge amounts of produce, dairy, meats, flowers and more. During construction, bins are tucked near the scaffolding on 87th.

Name: Bagel Bob’s
Where: York between 86 and 87
Summary: Like all Bagel Bob’s, no shortage of bagels of all varieties. Alex was thankful there were no onion bagels stinking up the bag.

Name: Tal Bagels
Where: E 86th Street east of 1st Ave.
Summary: Here you will find…bagels!
Name: Eli’s

Name: Gristedes
Where: E 86th St west of 1st Ave, across street from the Dunkin D’s
Summary: Usual supermarket assortment of average quality produce, packaged goods, dairy, baked goods. As of last check (Jan 2013) we found a lot of the usual supermarket finds.

Name: Duane Reade
Where: Northeast corner of 86th Street and 1st Ave
Summary: At last check of this location (Jan 2013) we found a bunch of candy, pudding, babyfood and other odds and ends.

Name: Eli’s
Where: 3rd Avenue between 80th and 81st Sts.
Summary: Most of their trash goes through a compactor, but on our first dive we found about five bags of uncompacted food including yogurt, almonds and butter.

Name: Associated
Where: 1st Avenue between 81st and 82nd Sts.
Summary: Produce, bread and more.

Name: Gristedes
Where: 2nd Avenue between 75th & 76th
Summary: Huge piles of bags on blindingly lit stretch of 2nd Avenue– not for the shy. Similar to what’s found at Gristedes in other parts of town, including produce, bread, dairy and more.

Name: Food Emporium
Where: 1st Avenue at 71st
Summary: We’ve checked this one twice recently (Nov 2010). First time, produce (some of which packaged), some past-date staples. It was on a high trolley that we unpacked and needed to re-pack. Second time, Cindy’s comments: “INSANE amounts of trash – 4 or 5 of those small dumpsters, all piled over head-high.  Tons of bread, still frozen foods, sweets, produce, and more, and I only got through one or two dumpsters.”

Name: Grace’s Market
Where: 71st and 3rd Avenue: (north east corner)
SummaryThis is a large gourmet supermarket where in the past we’ve found lots of stuff. Most recently (Nov 2010), nothing– but we may have been too late.

Name: Walgreen
Where: 2nd Ave and 70th St
Summary: Our group has found loads of stuff on 2 recent occasions (autumn 2010). Everything from halloween costumes to sodas and bottled water to a surprising amount of deli-type packaged:   food, as well as some produce.

Name:  Gourmet Garage
Name: Eli’s
Where:  301 E 64th Street between 1st and 2nd Ave
Summary: At other locations in the city, this retailer has been locking its dumpsters or has “disappeared” them from the street. However, as of April 2010 we have reports that good food is accessible in the morning. A contributor writes: “I pass at 8:00am on weekdays. Two days in a row there has been a clear bag with rolls/bread, and varying packages of ready made salads (some with chicken added, etc).  The expiration date is of the day before.” This is a “mini” Gourmet Garbage; in several passes in 2012, Freegan.info members haven’t found anything in the evening, although morning may still be fine.

Name: Morton Williams
Where: 917 9th Avenue, between 58th and 59th Streets
Summary: Produce, bagels, bread, sweets, packaged goods, clean packaged sandwiches. (updated October 2012).

Name: Morton Williams
Where: 58th Street just east of Broadway (store entrance is on 57th, but the trash is on 58th)
Summary: On the messy side, but on a pretty quiet street, so a good place for the shy. In October 2012 we found a bunch of produce and bread, some dairy products and a whole heap of cookies.

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Where: 54th and 10th Avenue
Summary: May vary. In October 2012, no donuts were out, but there was a lot of pumpkin donut mix.

Gristedes
Where: 8th Avenue and 54th Street
Summary: Lots  of produce, bread, eggs, and packaged goods here. In the past employees got a bit angry with us, but didn’t try to stop us. (Updated October 2012)

Name: Pick a Bagel
Where: 53 and 8th
Summary: croissants and bagels. Updated October 2012.

Name: Duane Reade
WhereL 53rd and 8th
Summary: This chain is becoming one of NYC’s bigger wasters. Here’s a report for this location from October 2012: “One of the largest curbside piles of usable goods I have ever seen! You could have opened up a pop-up store with the finds here! (no exaggeration) bagful of gum!   bagful of cookies, snacks (Pirate’s booty stuff), cans of baked beans, mac and cheese, cologne, chocolate (Hersheys), soap, some pills (prenatal, still not expired!), hair care products, baby care products (soaps, lotions), scar-away (ideal for c-section), many other drugstore-type things… I can’t imagine this was a typical night… I can’t even guess why so much was tossed that night… at least a couple of other passers-by took some.  wild!”

Name: Food Emporium
Where: Dumpsters are on 49th Street just east of 8th Avenue
Summary: Loads of stuff. We found veggies, tofu, bread, dairy, nuts and seeds. It’s a bit overwhelming here, as there is a lot of stuff. (updated Jan. 2010)

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Where: 9th Avenue between 48th and 49th
What: Typical DD fare! (updated Jan. 2010)

Name: Hale and Hearty Soup
Where 42nd between 5th and 6th
What: Bread, salads.

Name: Pret A Manger
Where: 135 W.50th Street between 50th and 7th Av.
Summary: 42nd Street between 5th and 6th Aves (north side of Street)
As of September 2009, a former employee says they donate all their leftovers. Experienced divers know many stores make this claim; however, the pickings have been slim for a while.

Name: Pax
Where: 42nd Street between 7th and 8th.
What: Wrap sandwiches, pizza, baked goods.
TimeNotes: Fairly narrow time window‚ stuff goes out late and is picked up by 1:30 AM or so.

Name: Walgreens
Where: 42nd and 7th
Summary: I have repeatedly found 20 or so black bags full of merchandise, from food to toiletries to drugs to weird tourist crap. Trash goes out around 9 PM and is collected by about 10:20.

Name: Godiva Chocolates
Where: Broadway, between 41st and 42nd
Summary: Chocolate covered strawberries, and other varieties of chocolate.
Not too much volume usually. Be careful of their really thin bags that fall apart easily.
When: 9-11 PM except Saturdays

Name: Pax
Where: 40th Street and 6th Avenue
Summary: Bagels, rolls, variety of other stuff. Less consistent than other Pax stores.

Name: Midtown Comics
Where: W. 40th Street at 7th Avenue
Summary:  Comics books, magazines, paperback novels, comic book protective bags and boards. Check the black bags and the sealed cardboard boxes. With the store to your back (entrance on 40th St, NOT 7th Ave), you will see a street sign right in front of you. Everything to the immediate right of the sign pole is Midtown Comics trash. Everything to the left is their neighbors.

Name: Pax
Where: Broadway between W 35th and W 36th Streets
Summary: LOTS of really expensive sandwiches, esp. wraps. Muffins, bagels. Very popular, so sometimes stuff is gone by the time you get there.

Name: Hale and Hearty Soup
Where: 35th and 7th Avenue
Summary: Entire bag of cut romaine lettuce, prepacked mixed salads in plastic sealed bowls. Soup veggies and beans sometimes.

Name: D’Agostino
Where: 1st Avenue and 56th
Summary: Bread and good produce in large quantities; recent dives (2011/12) we found plenty of produce plus pies, eggs, soy protein things. Previous finds include fancy items like organic drink mix and olive oil. There are regular neighborhood divers so please share.

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Where: 1st Avenue and 56th
Summary: The normal DD stuff; bags are on 1st Ave side by city trash can.

Name: Cosi
Where: 56th St between Madison & Park
Summary: We found focaccia bread and fresh unbaked dough, but kind of a “2nd choice” location.

Name: Tal Bagels
Where: 1st Ave near 54th St
Summary: Very fresh bagels, not mixed with trash.

Name: Walgreens
Where: 2nd Ave between 52 and 53
Summary: Mixed results in the evening– sometimes lots of household goods, packaged sandwiches, salads, canned goods, etc., sometimes nothing.

Name: D’Agostino
Where: 1st Ave & 53rd
Summary: Massive amounts of produce in a several mini-dumpsters on the sidewalk.

Name: Pain Quotidien
Where: 937 Second Avenue  at 50th St
Summary: Huge rounds of crusty whole grain sourdough bread that stay moist inside for many days after being tossed. Even on days when the whole loaves aren’t there, you’ll find quarter and half loaves and/or sliced bread. Also some baguettes, croissants, muffins. See their store listings and let us know what you find at other locations.

Name: Associated
Where: 2nd Avenue between 48th and 49th.
Summary: A contributor wrote in Jan 2011: “Every week night around 10:30 the trash hits the curb (clear bags, no dumpsters!).  The garbage truck comes around 11:00. Fresh bagels, rolls, cranberries, grapes, lettuce, tomatoes, apples, bananas, corn….wow!  In all the months I’ve been going there, nobody has joined me yet.  Oh come all ye’ faithful! Freekin’ Freegan Goldmine!”

Name: Café Europa
Where: 42nd Street between 5th and Madison
Summary:  Pizza, salads, sandwiches

https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/conditional-rendering.html
Name: Bread Factory
Where: 9th Avenue and 43rd St
Summary: Pies and pizza slices, unwrapped, messy. 10:20pm was too early for this place. (updated Jan. 2010)

Name: International Grocery
Where: 543 9th Ave, at 40th Street
Summary:  Worth checking if you’re blowing through the Port Authority bus terminal. We found Kabul brand flatbread and some produce, but not a lot. We didn’t find anything of note here on a Monday night. (updated Jan. 2010)

Name: Nice & Natural
Where: 673 9th Ave, between 46th and 47th Streets
Summary:  We found lots of packaged vegan prepared foods. At 10:30pm on a Monday night, we found nothing here. (updated Jan. 2010)

Name: Stiles Market
Where: 41st Street between 9th and 10th Aves.
Summary: This is a semi-open-air produce market. The night we went their dumpster didn’t yield a lot of usable produce, but if you’re in the area it’s worth a look. (updated Jan. 2010)

Name: Zaro’s
Where: 41st between Madison and Lex.
Summary: Sent to our mailbox: “Friday evenings starting at 6:30 or so, bags and bags and BAGS of bread and bagels are put out. In addition, more bags of raw bread/bagel dough (shaped and portioned already) are also put out… take it home, pop it in the oven for 10-15 minutes at 350 degrees, and voila – freshly baked breads (and really good!!). Doesn’t get much more freshly made than that. Haven’t tried other days and times – honestly, we get enough on one visit on Fridays that there’s no need to go back. And we take maybe 1/20th of what’s there, so there’s plenty to go around.”

Name: Pain Quotidien
Where: 40th, just a bit east of 6th Ave, across from Bryant Park
Summary: Throws out even on Saturdays (and also Sundays), starting early, around 7:00 or 7:30, with the usual delectable pastries and huge breads and good breadsticks and sliced bread too…. abundant!

Name: Daniel’s Bagels
Where: 569 3rd Avenue, between 37th & 38th Streets
Summary: What else? Bagels!

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Where: 567 3rd Avenue, right next to the bagel place
Summary: Enuff donuts to stuff a kop, plus they have…bagels!

Name: Hotel Tuscany,  used to be the W
Where: 39th St between Park and Lexington
Summary:  good for soaps and shampoos, not food

Name: Courtyard Marriott
Where: 40th St between 5th and Madison
Summary: also for soaps and stuff, not food

Name: Guy and Gallard
Where: 29th Street at 7th Ave
SpaceNotes: Dumpster on 29th Street side
Summary: Bagels, bread, salads, fruit salads, sandwiches, prepared gourmet meal thingees, fresh squeezed juice, yogurt and granola, etc. Kind of have to really reach in the bags to find good stuff sometimes, but there’s lots of it.

Name: Flower market
Where: 28th Street between 6th and 7th Avenues
Summary: Stores throughout the block.The stores all close by 6pm; regulars check early, but there are still flowers and plants for all until late at night.

Name: CVS
Where: 750 6th Ave at 25th st
SpaceNotes: On the same block is a Starbucks, on 24th and 6th ave.
Summary: A reader told us in October 2011 that both stores throw out massive bags of sandwiches and salads, about 1x per week.

Name: Gristedes
Where: 8th Avenue and 26th Street; recessed dumpster is on 26th between 8th and 9th Avenues.
Summary: A New York City megawaster is up to its usual tricks in Chelsea. The usual assortment of produce, dairy and eggs, bread and prepared foods. On the night freegan.info scouted, all locations had usable food, although at the “Megastore” and 26th Street dumpster it was in messy condition. At the 9th Avenue location a worker said we “couldn’t go through the garbage” (but we did anyway and found produce and boxes of cereal).

Name: Gristedes
Where:9th Avenue between 23rd and 24th Streets
Summary: A New York City megawaster is up to its usual tricks in Chelsea. The usual assortment of produce, dairy and eggs, bread and prepared foods. On the night freegan.info scouted, all locations had usable food, although at the “Megastore” and 26th Street dumpster it was in messy condition. At the 9th Avenue location a worker said we “couldn’t go through the garbage” (but we did anyway and found produce and boxes of cereal).

Name: Gristedes
Where “Megastore”, west side of 8th Avenue between 21st and 22nd Streets
Summary: A New York City megawaster is up to its usual tricks in Chelsea. The usual assortment of produce, dairy and eggs, bread and prepared foods. On the night freegan.info scouted, all locations had usable food, although at the “Megastore” and 26th Street dumpster it was in messy condition. At the 9th Avenue location a worker said we “couldn’t go through the garbage” (but we did anyway and found produce and boxes of cereal).

Name: Murray’s Bagels
Where: 249 8th Avenue between 22nd and 23rd Streets
Summary: Clean bagels, no muss no fuss.

Name: Garden of Eden
Where: 162 West 23rd Street
Summary: Yupscale NYC based chain that specializes in produce, prepared foods and luxury products.

Name: Krispy Creme
Where:  W 23rd Street between 7th and 8th Avenues
Summary:  Donuts, of course.

Name: Duane Reade
Where: 8th Ave. between 16th and 17th Streets
Summary: This new store was reported to us in March 2010 as as having “TONS of fabulous food… Gourmet salads, breads, sandwiches and much much more. It’s all packaged, sealed and with today’s expiration date. It’s a brand new store that few people know about yet so there’s a TON of food to go around.” We were there in Aug 2011 and yes, there was some stuff but don’t expect miracles.
erName: Garden of Eden

Name: Le Pain Quotidien
Where: 7th Ave. between 17th and 18th Streets
Summary: Huge rounds of crusty whole grain sourdough bread that stay moist inside for many days after being tossed. Even on days when the whole loaves aren’t there, you’ll find quarter and half loaves. Also some baguettes, croissants, muffins. In July 2011 at the 9th Ave location I found what looked like an unbaked round but turned out to be an entire chocolate mousse cake. Sometimes the stuff at these stores is in bags that had been held for City Harvest– folks there confirm that if their bags are on the sidewalk with the trash, which they shouldn’t be of course, then City Harvest is definitely NOT picking up the food.

Name: Le Pain Quotidien
Where: 52 9th Avenue between 14th and 15th Streets.
Summary: Huge rounds of crusty whole grain sourdough bread that stay moist inside for many days after being tossed. Even on days when the whole loaves aren’t there, you’ll find quarter and half loaves. Also some baguettes, croissants, muffins. In July 2011 at the 9th Ave location I found what looked like an unbaked round but turned out to be an entire chocolate mousse cake.  Sometimes the stuff at these stores is in bags that had been held for City Harvest– folks there confirm that if their bags are on the sidewalk with the trash, which they shouldn’t be of course, then City Harvest is definitely NOT picking up the food.



Name: Manhattan Fruit Exchange
Where: South side of 16th Street between 9th and 10th Aves.
Summary: Not for the shy, or for big groups. You need to climb onto the loading dock and root through big dumpsters, but the quantity and quality at this wholesaler make it worthwhile. Workers there are pretty friendly and tolerant, but huge trucks are coming in and out; if you are in the way you will be asked to leave.
Name: Western Beef
Where: North side of West 16th Street between 9th and 10th ave.
Summary: A reader wrote us, “I got 6 bags of perfectly good rotisserie chicken and friend chicken in the trash.” We were there in Aug 2011 and found some stuff, mainly dairy and veggies. Messy, in mid-size dumpsters.

Name: Associated
Where:  North side of 14th Street between 7th and 8th Aves.
Summary: Produce and more.

Name: Garden of Eden
Where: 310 3rd Avenue at 23rd Street
Summary: Yupscale NYC based chain that specializes in produce, prepared foods and luxury products.

Name: Zaro’s
Where: 920 Broadway between 20th and 21st; dumpsters are on the south side of 21st St just east of Broadway
Summary: Tip came in from a worker there: “Every night, a huge load of bread and pastries from that morning are discarded. Last night, I put out two bags of bread so heavy I could hardly lift them. I try to put the bags of clean food on the right or left side of the dumpsters rather than IN them.” It’s worth checking other Zaro’s locations as well, including Penn Station and Grand Central.

Name: Associated Supermarket
Where: Park Ave around 22nd
Summary: mainly produce

Name: Natural Green Market
Where: 16th at 3rd Ave
Summary: health food store
When: closes at 10:30, collects after 12:30

Name: David’s Bagels
Where: 1st Avenue between 19th and 20th Streets

Name: Gramercy Bagels
Where:  3rd Avenue and 20th Street

Name: Manhattan Carpets
Where: South side of 23rd Street, just a few stores east of Third Avenue.
Summary: Every evening, they put out large black Hefty bags full of carpet remnants – clean, unused, cut from the jobs of the day. Some pieces are large enough to cover large closets or small rooms.

Name: Whole Foods
Where: Back of store: north side of 13th St between University and Broadway
Summary: A sneaky one and has sometimes been hostile to dumpster divers. In the post-Occupy era, the compost has been moved much deeper into the indoor loading bays, so much harder to get to without being noticed or confronted.  Their stuff is in compost-type bins. Mainly it’s fruits and vegetables, sometimes in remarkable quantity and excellent condition; they also dump flowers and bread in these bins.

Name: Trader Joe’s
Where: South side of 14th Street between 3rd and 4th Avenues
Summary: At its best/worst,  there are mountains of citrus, nut butters, tofu products, dairy, cookies and cereals in perfect condition, cases of prepared foods with one container damaged, dozens of not even “expired” eggs, loads of meats. It’s easiest to wait until after 10 pm, when they roll their mini dumpsters to the curb and employees tend not to hassle dumpster divers. (Although this spot is so well known, please play nice!) It’s possible to do a quick dive at almost any time that one of the containers is on the sidewalk– worth checking in the daytime if you’re in the area. Lately (winter 2012) folks have been reporting finding a lot less stuff. We hope that means more is being donated. There’s also a shift in worker attitude– lately even people foraging in containers next to the building have been told, “you know, I’m supposed to tell you not to do this…”

Name: Garden of Eden
Where: 14th Street between 5th and University
Summary: What a mess, all piled onto mini-dumpsters. In addition to their bags, in the dumpsters and outside when they overflow, sometimes yielding raw meat and fish (think pet food!), check the large rolling garbage containers, which hold all the deli hot food (a specialty of this chain; may contain cooked chickens) as well as salad bar and other produce.

Name: Petco
Where:: Union Square North and Broadway
Summary: Lots of companion animal food. (Keep in mind that carnivorous companions generally love the meat and fish fit for human consumption that all the supermarkets throw out. With a little care — don’t take lukewarm animal products; wash everything in cold water and wrap in clean packaging; freeze what you can; use right way; always cook before you serve it– your companions need never eat overprocessed byproduct kibble again.)


Name: Bagelry
Where: 14th Street and 7th Ave
Summary: Puts out more bagels than Bagel Bob’s, and sometimes Krispy Kreme donuts or salads as well

Name: Food Emporium
Where: 6th Ave below 12th
Summary: upscale supermarket chain Latest check (winter 2012) finds this place wasting plenty of produce and other goods, with stuff available– even fairly picked over — by 11pm. Very popular, because of its former hyper-wastefulness, but still seldom gets completely cleaned out, especially if you dig deep in the miscellaneous bags.

Name: Lifethyme Natural Market
Where: 6th Ave between 8th and 9th
Summary: Large health food store. Closes at 10. Not the most wasteful in the neighborhood, but still, they toss some decent stuff.  Their  black bags sometimes yield packs of nuts, vegan baked goods, dried fruit, small amounts of produce, lots of patches of cut live wheatgrass. For the intrepid, dig into the hot food bags– they empty loads of cooked organic food every night, all mixed together in big messy bags. They used to let folks take the hot food before they dumped it, but no more, sad to say.

Name: Citarella
Where: 6th Ave between 9th and 10th
Summary: Conspicuous upscale market.  For years it was impossible to find the trash. Lately (spring 2012) they’re putting out mountains of plastic bags, like their less chichi competitors. Found gorgeous greens, clean and in bags by themselves, plus assorted produce in mixed mess. There were also lots of stripped fish carcasses– stew for the intrepid pescovore.

Name: Gristedes
Where: Barrow between 7th Avenue and W. 4th Street.
Summary: The trash is around the corner from the market itself, next to a parking garage, across from One if By Land (fancy restaurant) and west of the trash for the apartment building. Lotsa stuff, not often seriously dived.

Name: Gristedes
Where: Bank St west of Hudson.
Summary: Trash also around the corner from the market. The usual Gristedes assortment.

Name: Le Pain Quotidien
Where: 8th St just west of 5th Ave
Summary: Huge rounds of crusty whole grain sourdough bread, stays moist inside for many days after being tossed. Even on days when the whole loaves aren’t there, you’ll find quarter and half loaves. Also some baguettes and occasionally sweets– muffins, croissants, scones, pain chocolat.

Name: Integral Yoga
Where: 13th Street between 7th and 8th Avenues
Summary: small health food store; no produce.

Name: Peanut Butter and Co.
Where: 3rd St. and Sullivan, below Washington Sq. Park
Summary: Peanut butter and banana sandwiches, whole grain bread, celery and carrot sticks, cups of peanut butter

Name: produce market (large, I forget the name)
Where: Carmine at Varick St.
Summary: Several cartons of very good produce

Name: Agata and Valentina
Where: 64 University Place (Between 10th and 11th)
When: Every night after 10 PM
Summary: Gourmet Food

Name: Bagel Bob’s
Where: University between 9th and 10th
Summary: An East Village freegan legend; out of the many bags of plain old trash, feel for the one to three bags that contains obvious bagel and bialy shapes. Huge bags of bagels, mini bagels, bagel bits (sort of like Munchkins, but bagels), cinnamon buns, struedels, and bialys not intermingled with other food and garbage Very popular. Don’t bother on Mondays.

Name: Gristedes
Where: University between 8th and 9th Street
Summary: As of winter 2012, no trash to be seen at this formerly reliable and well-known spot. Have you figured out where and when they’re dumping? If so let us know.

Name: Au Bon Pain
Where: 8th Street and Mercer
Summary: Bread and pastry chain. This one tosses lots of pastries when it closes around 11:30 pm. Also, bagels, rolls, breadsticks, etc.

Name: Gristedes
Where: Mercer St and 3rd St
Summary: fruit and other produce. Bread, hummus, dairy, eggs, packaged foods.

Name: Pain Quotidien
Where: Bleeker St. east of Broadway
Summary: Huge rounds of crusty whole grain sourdough bread that stay moist inside for many days after being tossed. Even on days when the whole loaves aren’t there, you’ll find quarter and half loaves and/or sliced bread. Also some baguettes, croissants, muffins. See their store listings and let us know what you find at other locations.

Name: Taylors
Where: 2nd Avenue between 10th and 11th Streets
Summary: Old news: tray of sandwiches used to get thrown out every night. Can someone check if that’s still the case?

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Where: 1st Avenue between 12th and 13th Streets
Summary: Not a particularly fruitful location of this serial waster.

Name: Commodities
Where: 1st Ave and 10th St
Summary: This health food store has had small but good finds recently (Jan 2013), including produce, juice, packaged vegan salads.

Name: Lime Tree
Where: 1st Avenue and 9th Street
Summary: This is a fruit and vegetable store with loads of good produce and sometimes the day’s sandwiches.

Name: Gourmet Deli
Where: East side of 1st Avenue between 8th and 9th
Summary: At last check (Jan 2013) we found produce, flowers and more at this location.

Name: Healthfully
Where: 4th Street between 1st and 2nd Avenue
Summary: Small health food store – we used to find some produce and such here, but at last check (Jan 2013) we saw no trash at 10:30 on a Monday.

Name: Produce stand
Where: Northeast corner of 1st Ave and 7th Street – at last check (Jan 2013) we saw no trash at 10:30 on a Monday.

Name: Caravan of Dreams
Where: 6th St east of 1st Ave
Summary: vegan restaurant Not much to be found, but what was there reported as good. Has not been checked for a while so let us know what you find.

Name: 4th Street Food Co-op
Where: E 4th Street between 2nd Ave. and Bowery
Summary: Some produce in the compost bin, which, as of Feb. 2012, is put out
When: Monday, Wednesday and Friday.

Name: Houston Village Farm
Where: 1st Ave. and E 4th Street
Summary: some produce available

Name: Union Market
Where: Northeast corner of Houston and Avenue A
Summary: This chronic waster from Brooklyn has come to Manhattan, and brought bags of produce, bread and fancy packaged goods.

Name: Gourmet Garage
Where: 453 Broome Street at Wooster
Summary: This branch moved since the last time our group had checked. As of December 2012 there were small compost-type dumpsters,  empty at 10:30pm. If you’re in that area frequently and know the new pattern please let us know. Here is old news (April 2012) from the location on Mercer: “On trash nights, these guys seem to watch over the trash until about 9:30 p.m., and the truck seems to come by around 10:00 p.m. I know it’s not much of a window, but on a recent Sunday evening, I found bagels, a mango, cottage cheeses, fresh squeezed citrus juices, expensive sausages and ham. All the refrigerated items were very cold and most items were not even expired. I didn’t even look very thoroughly. Also, on a Tuesday or a Thursday night at about 9:45 p.m., I found bagels and flowers easily.” The freegan group had also had good results at the old location.

Name: Dean & Deluca
Where: 450 Broadway between Prince and Spring Sts
Summary: Sushi, bread, sandwiches, fancy salads, pastries, etc., plus a bit of produce. Quantity goes up and down but some nights it’s a mountain.

Name: Housing Works
Where: 126 Crosby
Summary: Clothing and books. Stuff can be pulled out at all hours of the day. Quite well known in NYC. Last time the group was there (Dec 2012), no dumpster was present– let us know if you still find stuff there.

Name: Bari
Where: Broadway and Spring
Summary: Coffee place. On a 2012 trailblaze we found rolls and cupcakes– worth looking again.

Name: produce stand
Where: Southeast corner of Houston and Broadway
Summary: Gray barrels have compostable food.

Name: Soho Garden
Where: Prince between Mulberry and Mott.
Summary: We found produce, cheese and tofu.

Name: unnamed grocery store
Where: Mulberry south of Prince St.
Summary: lots of produce available here, and some other miscellaneous goods.


Name: Whole Foods
Where: Houston and Chrystie
Summary: Lately (2011-2012) everything has been behind closed doors, which was not the case in the past. If you find this changes, let us know.

Name: Finest Produce
Where: 119 Christie
Summary: This is a wholesaler. Dumpster with bulk produce; sometimes quite a lot, sometimes very little in good shape.

Name: Essex Street Market
Where: Essex between Rivington and Delancey
Summary: Large indoor market; check dumpsters in
When: the afternoon.

Name: Economy Candy
Where: Rivington between Essex and Ludlow
Summary: Candy and nuts.

Name: Fay Da Bakery
Where: 82 Elizabeth St. between Hester & Grand
Summary: Sweet & meaty baked goods.

Name: Fay Da Bakery
Where: Mott & Canal
Summary: Sweet & meaty baked goods.

Name: Food Emporium
Where: 316 Greenwich St at Duane St
Summary: Lots of produce, meat, prepared foods, and all manner of other items in chest-high dumpsters in front of the store. Very exposed location, super wide sidewalk. Confirmed this site 3/5/12.

Name: ‘Wichcraft
Where: 397 Greenwich St at Beach St
Summary: From a contributor, November 2011: “At the end of the night, the restaurant Wichcraft throws away between 10-20 sandwiches which were made earlier in the day. They are all cold sandwiches (goat cheese, chicken salad, chickpea, tuna) and can be eaten or stored for a few days. If you go after closing (around 830 on weekdays and 530 on weekends) they will probably happily give you a bag of sandwiches. There are 10 others around the city.” Confirmed this site 3/5/12.

Name: Pain Quotidien
Where: 81 West Broadway at Warren St.
Summary: Huge rounds of crusty whole grain sourdough bread that stay moist inside for many days after being tossed. Even on days when the whole loaves aren’t there, you’ll find quarter and half loaves and/or sliced bread. Also some baguettes, croissants, muffins.

Name: Bento Nouveau Sushi
Where: 173 Broadway at Cortland
Summary: HUGE clear garbage bags full of plastic box wrapped sushi thrown out when they close, very easy to find.

Name: Bento Nouveau Sushi
Where:  32 Broadway between Wall and Beaver
Summary: HUGE clear garbage bags full of plastic box wrapped sushi thrown out when they close, very easy to find.

Name: Gristedes
Where: 90 Maiden Lane
SpaceNotes: (but trash is out back on Cedar, between William and Pearl, between Liberato’s pizza and a parking garage)
Summary: Standard grocery that is easy to get at. As of Jan 2012, lots of prepared foods on a consistent basis– roast chicken, meat-n-2-veg ready meals, hummus, produce, bread. Plus produce in more limited quantities.

Name: Duane Reade
Where: Wall Street (but trash is out back on Pine near William)
Summary: Throws out late. As of winter 2012 being used by OWS folks meeting nearby, but check anyway; this serial waster shouldn’t have any good stuff going to landfills or incinerators. There are several other Duane Reade stores in the area, bottom of Broadway, on Broad, in Battery Park City– always worth checking if you’re there late at night.

Name: Jubilee Marketplace
Where: 90 John Street
SpaceNotes: (but trash is on an unnamed alley off Gold St between John and Fulton)
Summary: The night we went, this was daunting– 2 gigantic dumpsters with a high ratio of garbage to food. More exploration would be helpful, as this seems to be a very high end grocery.

Pain Quotidien?
2 River Terrace (way far west, past end of Murray St) – sure enough, bread!

Name: Gristedes
Where: 315 South End Avenue –
Summary: the usual grocery assortment produce, bread, bakery, pasta, a few sandwiches, but not lots of premade stuff

Name: Izzy & Nats
Where: 311 South End Avenue
Summary: bagels and some hash brown patties

Name: Hudson Produce
Where: 300 Albany St, 1/2 blk south of Gristedes,
SpaceNotes: trash is on South End Ave
Summary: – lots of good produce, plus flowers.

Name: Gristedes
Where: 71 South End Ave (trash on W. Thames St.)
Summary: A motherlode on our first check but we didn’t stay long due to cold. Just skimming the top of the small dumpster we found cookies, cereal, lots of produce – and that was just at the top. Bring a light to explore more, as this is a pretty dark street.


Name: Pret a Manger
Where: Maiden Lane
Summary: interesting, since this chain claims they donate all of their food. We found wrapped sandwiches and boxed sushi.


Name: Hale & Hearty
Where: Maiden Lane
Summary: wrapped sandwiches.

Name: Starbucks
Where: Maiden Lane
Summary: this is generally hit or miss, but we did find some usable stuff, wholesale-size bottle of their drink mixes. Other times one can find sandwiches, salads, etc at this chain.

Name: Dunkin Donuts
Where: Maiden Lane
Summary: just about every outlet in this chain throws out donuts, bagels and other baked/fried goods. This one was no exception. If you are starving in NYC, just look around for a Dunkin D, the calories are there.


This list is alphabetical by neighborhood name.

Bedford-Stuyvesant

Name: Kosher market
Where: Myrtle Ave one block west of Bedford Ave
How: Regular curbside bags
Summary: What you get: Many assorted groceries (an unfriendly dumpster diver was there when we arrived, so we couldn’t really check it out)

Name: Bakery
Where: Myrtle about a block east of Bedford
Summary: We also found challah.

Brooklyn Heights

Name: Perelandra
Where: Remsen St across from Borough Hall, between Court and Clinton Sts
Space: Regular curbside bags, plus cardboard boxes set to the side with most of the produce (what foragers don’t take gets composted).
When: 8:45 when all the employees leave the store. Trash is collected between 10:30 p and 12:30a. One source says nothing is out on Saturdays.
What: Lots of locals count on finding greens and produce in particular. Fewer go thru the bags, which contain health bread, and often assorted packaged health foods, and small amounts of bulk foods (grains, beans, nuts, coffee) that can be gleaned from the not-quite-emptied heavy brown bags.

Name: Trader Joe’s
Where: Atlantic at Court
Summary: Dumpster divers from all 4 boroughs have been known to make the trip. On some nights TJ’s puts out upwards of 6 dumpsters, at least half of which are filled top to bottom with quality food. Sometimes the scene gets weirdly competitive, with dumpster divers seeming to forget that the area is packed with other wasteful stores.
When: Lately (fall 2012), usually not until about midnight; sometimes earlier. Be forewarned, the initial reaction of this store’s management was to have the police ticket dumpster divers for trespass or littering; the situation could always take a turn for the worse.
SpaceNotes: On the south side of Atlantic Avenue near Court St in big dumpsters.
What You’ll Find:Just about anything, depending on the night and how much time you have to sort through.

Name: La Bagel Delight
Smmary: Bagels and more in a double-wide storefront
Where: 90 Court St., between Livingston and Schermerhorn
When: 10p
SpaceNotes:Large black bags out front.
What: Plenty of fresh, soft and delicious bagels of all varieties. Some sweets like scones and croissants, and a few sandwiches too.

Name: Garden of Eden
Summary: Yuppie grocery
Where: 184 Montague Street, at Court
When:Sunday-Friday 10p
How: Three dumpsters on the curb plus “compost” mini dumpsters.
What: Messy and hit-or-miss, but can yield a surprising amount of fresh vegetables,  prepared foods, yogurts and so forth. The “compost” bins are well worth digging down a ways, as they’ve yielded lots of whole fruit and veg.

Name: Gristedes
Summary: Supermarket
Where: 101 Clark Street
When: After 9:30p
How: Clear garbage bags out front.
What: Routinely hit or miss, but the hits can be great: dozens of eggs, bags of chocolate chips, cheese.

Name: Key Foods
Summary: Grocery store
Where: Atlantic and Henry, northeast corner; also check the one on Montague between Hicks and Henry.
When: After 10p
How: Clear garbage bags on the corner curb.
What: Decent produce in reliable quantities. Often there are packaged vegan prepared foods at or near their sell-by date.

Name: Associated Supermarket
Where: Knickerbocker Ave at Starr St
Summary: Wendy sez: “I was there in the late afternoon, and there were several bags out. I found cocunuts, yucca, grapes, carrots, garlic, and other types of produce.”

Name: Kim’s Millenium Market
Where: Bushwick Avenue right off the Montrose Stop on the L train.

Name: Caputo’s Bakery
Summary: Italian bakery
Where: 329 Court Street, at Sackett
When: Nightly after 10p
How: Four garbage cans.
What: Excellent bread and cookies. Baker is on site all night long; move fast. Also, vegetarians beware the sausage bread.


Name: Union Market
Where: 288 Court Street (just north of Degraw)
When: Sunday-Friday 9p
How: Black plastic garbage bags on the curb.
What: For those on bicycle or who don’t mind a little walk, this is a great alternative to the Trader Joe’s at Atlantic and Court. It’s a high-end supermarket mini-chain that is just far enough from other stores that it gets few dumpster divers. Finds have included loads of packaged and unpackaged bread, produce, dairy products, quarts of prepared soup (generally not vegetarian), fancy desserts, fancy fresh pasta.

Name: Bagel World
Where: 181 Court Street
When To Look: Sunday-Friday 9p
Where To Look: Black plastic garbage bags on the curb.
What: All-you-can-eat bagels in two or three bags.

Name: New Utica Produce
Where: 282 Utica Avenue
What: Marsha offers this local info in March 2012: “Out front features the usual assortment of vegetables, fruits, et al. They put out a wheeled trash container filled with discarded produce. During the day, this trash bin is tied tightly with twine and they wouldn’t appreciate it being cut. However, late at night, the twine is removed. I have dug through it after 10 and 11 p.m. to find it loaded with cast-off lettuce leaves, lemons, limes, oranges, mangoes, tomatoes, bananas, apples, bundles of mint, parsley, etc. The nearby cardboard boxes also often have discarded produce.  So far, the manager doesn’t give me any trouble when I dig through it so it might be worth a try for others.”

Name: Brooklyn Fare
Where: 200 Schermerhorn Street (corner of Hoyt)
What: Raven reported in March 2012: “The first bag we opened was FULL of nothing but packaged boxes of organic cookies, gluten free cookie, gourmet packaged tortas. It was too good not to take everything which was an unbelievable amount. So much that right now I’m going to go give some away. We must have salvaged over $200 worth of stuff, perfectly good, no expiration date, not stale food!”

Name: Pathmark at
Where: Atlantic Center (on Atlantic Avenue)
How: “In the produce section, employees have plastic garbage bins that they drag around and go through the produce and throw out items here and there– anything with the slightest imperfection, sometimes stuff that’s completely perfect. From my experience, if you eat it in the store, no one will bother you (though it’s probably wise to stay near the bin you got it from to explain how you got it if an employee asks). If you intend to take it out, put it in a bag so you don’t have to explain that you aren’t stealing it. If you go to the back of the store, you will find the area employees go in and out of. If you go in there, as you walk in, on the facing wall are cardboard boxes filled with items pulled from the shelves. We’ve found that a good way to get the stuff and not have anyone bother you is to say you need a cardboard box if an employee asks why you are there, take one of the boxes, and then just fill it with stuff from the other boxes or take it out with whatever is in it. You can then walk right out of the store without anyone bothering you.”
When: During store hours. Probably not too early in the day, but I’m not really sure if there is a best time.
What: Varies widely, but including packaged and loose produce.

Name: Associated Supermarket
Where: 1413 Avenue J (north side) between E 14 and E 15 Street, very near the Ave J stop on the Q train.
How: Loads of black bags of fruit and vegetables There’s also generally 1 very heavy bag of raw meat that’s been taken out of the packages. The managers are generally friendly but customers sometimes complain, so try to come after dark and be fairly discreet.
When: As early as 7pm, but later means less hassle.

Name: Fruit Palace
Where: 1408 Avenue J (south side) between E 14 and E 15 Street
How: Some produce, but minimal compared to the Associated across the street.

Name: New Banana King
Where 1123 Avenue J (north side) at E 12th Street
Summary: As late at night as you can stand, on E 12th Street, big black plastic bags. This store stays open very late and some of the managers will diligently shoo you away. They throw out huge quantities of produce, seemingly entire cases of stuff not up to their standard. My partner and I have made gallons of cider from a single night’s pickup of apples and pears, for instance. Other typical mass dumps include bananas and tomatoes. Be prepared to can, dry, freeze or ferment.

Name: Isaac’s bake shop
Where: 1419 Avenue J (north side) between E 14 and E 15 Street
Summary: Bags on the street of bread and pastries, particularly on Friday evening.

Name: Pom distributor
Where: Ash Street just west of Pulaski Bridge; look for Pom trucks inside parking lot. Dumpster is at the back of the lot.
Summary: This is the legendary juice dumpster; one editor of this site stumbled upon it in June 2012. In the late afternoon of a weekday, the gate was open and the dumpster chock full of everything from pomegranate juice to lemonade to smoothies and lattes. Everything was acceptably cool; no bottles were bloated. Some were way past “pull date”.

Name: Lowell Importers
Where: Greenpoint Avenue and West Street, southwest corner
When: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday 9p
Summary:Two dumpsters. Polish cheeses. Farmer cheese, sliced sandwich cheese, spreads, yogurts.

Name: Garden of Eden Warehouse
Where: Butler and Third Avenue
When: Sunday-Friday 10p
SpaceNotes: Three to five dumpsters.
Summary: What You’ll Find: Messy with big clear bags of food waste. Some fresh produce, a little prepared food, and good sweet and savory bread.


Name: Jewish Bakery
Where: Franklin between Park and Flushing
SpaceNotes: Two overstuffed dumpsters.
Summary: What You’ll Find:Cakes, cupcakes.

Name: Haltzlacha Supermarket
Where: Flushing Ave at Franklin Ave
Summary: Large kosher supermarket
What: Produce, baked goods, packaged snack foods, occasionally prepared salads
Time: Every Sun-Thurs night, from 8 or 9 PM to at least midnight.

Name: Union Market
Where: 754 Union at 6th Avenue (trash is on 6th)
402 7th Avenue between 12th & 13th Sts
(also on Court St– see listing in Cobble Hill)
When: Sunday-Friday 9p
SpaceNotes: Black plastic garbage bags on the curb; Union St location also has “compost” bins.
Summary: High-end supermarket mini-chain. The Union St location is brightly lit and is frequented by neighborhood dumpster divers. The south slope location is on a dark and quiet stretch and does not seem to be well known to dumpster divers. Finds at both stores (and the Court St location) have included loads of packaged and unpackaged bread, produce, dairy products, quarts of prepared soup (generally not vegetarian), fancy desserts, fancy fresh pasta.

Name: Associated
Where: 5th Avenue and President Street
SpaceNotes: On 5th Avenue, but the bags are in cardboard boxes to the north side of the store entrance.
What: modest amount of produce in good condition.

Name: Bageltique
Summary: Bagel and fast food joint
Where: 5th Avenue and Carroll
SpaceNotes: Regular curbside bags
What: A reasonable number of bagels, but mixed with a bit of paper trash.

Name Nature Plus
Summary: Convenience and some health food
Where: 5th Avenue and Park
SpaceNotes: Where to Look: Regular curbside bags
What: OK, this may have been a one-time find, but I found a bunch of staples like rice, cornmeal, industrial-sized containers of spices (partially used), a few canned goods. It could be that the store stopped doing soups or some other kind of prepared food, or the dry goods in question had been on the shelf a long time. The outsides of containers had that old stickiness like they had sat on a shelf above a stove for many moons. But worth checking back.

Name: Back to the Land
Summary: Small natural foods store
Where: 142 7th Ave between Garfield and Carroll Sts
When: Sunday-Friday 10p. On at least one occasion, food was still there after midnight.
SpaceNotes: Regular curbside bags
What: Health food store stuff; besides the regular slabs of wheatgrass and assorted greens, I found a bag full of all sorts of veg/vegan prepared foods, including packages of curry tofu, sweet and sour tofu, meatless chicken salad, macrobiotic noodle and vegetable salads, etc. Good for yogurt, eggs, and packaged goods.

Name: Key Foods
Summary: Supermarket
Where: 130 7th Avenue at Carroll Street
SpaceNotes: 2 big dumpsters on 7th
What: We don’t know this location very well; needs more exploration. On latest visit (Jan 2011), some produce and bakery goods, but hard to get at. Location is super well lit, there is a lot of foot traffic and there is not much room to work, as the dumpsters are directly outside the store entrance.

Name: D’Vine Taste
Where: 148 7th Avenue, between Garfield and Carrol
What: We found cheese, bread and some tofu on the night we went.

Name: Northside Health Food
Where: Bedford & N. 8th
When: Trash is usually out by 10:30
What: Hit or miss, but on a recent Sunday night, loads of packaged sandwiches and salads. Only two or three bags, so it’s easy to check.

Name: Sunac Natural Foods
Where: N. 7th just west of Bedford Ave
Summary: Kind of a health food 7-11.
What: Packaged salads, grapes, and other produce.

Name: Food Town/Williamsburg Food Market
Where:  N. 3rd just west of Bedford
Summary: Lots of prepared foods, some produce. In November 2011 we also found lots of unopened beverages, including kambucha.

Name: Duane Reade
Where: Bedford at N. 3rd
Summary: As of November 2011, lots of  fruit, vegetables, bread, packaged sandwiches, cooked meats and salads. Verifies what we’ve heard from locals and a contributor (Jan 2011).

Name: The Bagel Store
Where: Bedford and N. 3rd (trash is on N. 3rd)
Summary:We recently (November 2011) met at this store, which has a few inside tables and loud TV.  They do toss bagels, somewhat erratically.

Name: Khim’s Market (at least we think the trash was from there)
Where: Bedford and N. 1st (dumpsters on N. 1st)
Summary: We found lots of produce and sandwiches, plus canned goods (including, weirdly, Hershey’s syrup).

Name: South Side Food Plaza
Summary: kosher supermarket
Where: Bedford at S. 8th
What: Lots of fruits, vegetables, and snacks

Name: Food Bazaar
Where: 21 Manhattan Ave, near Lorimer J&M stop; trash in parking lot on Broadway
When: Needs more exploration, but on our midweek trailblaze food was out at 10pm.
SpaceNotes: Several large dumpsters in the east corner of the parking lot, the corner farthest away from the store itself. There are gates, but left open. Veggies, herbs, fruit, meats and cheeses, junk food and more.

Name: Depanneur
Where: 242 Wythe
When:  Every night
SpaceNotes: Most of the time they are not in garbage bags but in brown paper bags.
What: Between 5 and 20 baguettes every night. Sometimes other stuff like sandwiches.

Name: Associated Supermarket
Where: 47th Avenue between 44th and 45t
What: they throw out a lot of good produce, including bananas.

Name: Sunnyside Pharmacy
Where: South-west corner of Queens Blvd and 40th Street–
What: twice in the last couple weeks they’ve thrown out canned high energy shakes, and also packages of diapers.

Name: Newsstand
Where: Along the strip of queens blvd between 39th place and 40th street
What: there’s a news stand that throws out the New York Times every night at 9 pm.

Name: Key Food
Where: 108th Street and Liberty Ave. 
What: They have a lot of fruits and vegetables, and canned items. They usually throw out things on Sundays. The store closes at 7, so from that time on, the food is ready to take.


Name: Health food store on
Where: Victory Blvd and Manor Rd –
What: good place, go on Manor Rd behind the shopping center, the dumpster all the way in the back. Great finds there, especially later in the week (they collect once a week, and I don’t remember when). Last find was several cases of packaged brownies and six Odwalla drinks.

Name: C-Town –
Where: on Forest Ave, take the 48 bus from Victory Blvd and you won’t miss it.
What: Big dumpster full of lots of stuff.


Aylward’s Natural Food 
342 Main Street. between Passaic and East Berry Streets
Where to Dive: One small dumpster to the immediate left of the stairs coming out the back side of the store (the side facing the parking lot on River Street).
When to Dive: Pretty much any time is fine. Store personnel hardly even leave the store, and doesn’t really bother you.
How to Dive: Be careful of the double lid on the dumpster– if you lift one side, it will lift the other and one may come crashing down on you. The safest way to do it is to completely open both covers, though I rarely bother.
What You’ll Find: Surprisingly little. This place pretty is good for the rare gem in small quantities. Finds include packs of soy cheese, a box of herbal tea, and a big container of sesame seeds.

C Town Supermarket 
154 State Street
When to Dive it: During the day, they pretty much leave you alone if you reach in the dumpster but get annoyed if you climb in. They are closed at night, so you can get a lot more stuff by climbing in after hours.
Where to go: Single medium sized dumpster in the parking lot.
What you’ll find: Wide variety of items including produce, meat, packaged foods

Dunkin Donuts/Baskin Robbins
150 Passaic Street
How to Dive: Pretty good at any time until collection. Staff is totally cool, and will sometimes even bring you stuff they are going to throw out before it gets thrown in the dumpster.
Where to go: Two dumpsters right behind the store.
What You’ll Find: The obvious stuff: ice cream in large tubs (sometimes melted to about “soft-serve” consistency, sometimes not), muffins, cookies, donuts, bagels, croissants, and one big surprise– if you are lucky, you can find small vacuum sealed packs of ground coffee or 5 lb bags of coffee beans

Dunkin Donuts 
25 Hackensack Avenue (I think)
Where to Dive: In the back corner of the parking lot you’ll find the dumpster.
How to Dive: Reaching in the dumpster is sufficient.
When to Dive: I went during the day and found plenty of stuff.
What You’ll Find: muffins, cookies, donuts, bagels, croissants

Hackensack Market
120 Passaic Street
How to Dive It: Depending on the employee they may ask you to leave if you dive durng the day, so its best to go after 8 or 9 PM.
Two medium-sized dumpsters behind the store.
What You’ll Find: meat, produce, prepared food and housewares.

Giant Gourmet Farmers’ Market 
324 Main Street between Passaic Street and East Berry Street
THE GOLD MINE!!!
How to Dive It: If you don’t want to deal with an unsympathetic manager who will tell you to leave, go after about 9PM. If this doesn’t bother you, go between 9 or 10 AM and closing time. The later in the day, the more stuff will be there, but the dumpsters fill up so high that by the end of the day you won’t be able to access the stuff from earlier in the day without great difficulty. Fish arrives late in the day generally, fruit shows up pretty early, with more added throughout the day, and vegetables show up throughout the day. Staff usually leaves you alone and sometimes presents the best stuff to you before they throw it in the dumpster, but the owner/manager will shoo you away if he sees you. You can get to plenty of stuff by reaching into the dumpster, but you can get to a lot more if you climb into the two monster-sized dumpsters at this place.
Where to Dive: If you stand in the parking lot (on the River Street side of the store) and stand facing the store, you’ll see a fenced area with four very tall dumpsters on the right side of the parking lot– the side facing the McDonald’s parking lot. Of the four dumpsters, the two closest to the store are just cardboard. The other two dumpsters are just food.
What You’ll Find: all kinds of fruit and vegetables, lots of fish, rice, prepared fruit salad in individual plastic containers
Other — Two dumpsters worth of cardboard for all your protest sign and assorted arts and crafts needs!

Rite Aid
123 Anderson St (near the Anderson Street Train Station)
Where to Dive: Rite Aid shares a building with a chicken fast food place and a Laundromat. On the side neareast the chicken place, nearest to the Dumkin Donutes are gated fences against the wall, containing dumpsters. The dumpster closest to Dunkin Donuts is the Rite Aid dumpster
When to Dive: Pretty much any time.
How to Dive: I usually just look in, open the lid and see if there is anything.
What You’ll Find:Newspapers, word find game books, TV Guides, magazines.

Teaneck

Trash pick up is in the early morning for Teaneck businesses, so diving at night is pretty much always a safe bet. Teaneck has many strictly Kosher businesses that close before sunset on Friday and are closed during the day Saturday.

7 Eleven

107 Cedar Lane
What: newspapers, bread carrot and celery sticks in sealed cups with dip, muffins, bagels, etc
Where: dumpsters are to right of entrance in fenced in area. Go in with some subtlety, act like you belong and the customers will ignore you and the employeers won’t notice you

Annapurna Indian Grocery
561 Cedar Lane
What: Coconuts. Not always in good shape.
Where: Go down the hill to the end of the block. Swing the corner. There is a sort of alley behind the strip of stores and it is filled with dumpsters. Walk to the farthest dumpster.
When: Stuff is out day and night, with night being the ideal time, but I have had one run in with a property manager there, so night is probably the best time to get stuff.

Bake & Bagels Inc
513 Cedar Lane
What: Bagels, muffins, other baked goods. Fairly wide assortment of high-quality stuff.
Where: Bags loose and in plastic garbage can right by front door. Nothing there on Friday nights.

Butterflake
448 Cedar Lane
What: Cakes, hallah bread, etc.
Where: Two small dumpsters right next to back entrance of store (behind store).
When: Night until very early morning. Kosher, so closed on Saturday (don’t expect garbage Saturday night).

Empire Hunan II
444 Cedar Lane
What: Vegetable dumplings and other things
Where: Dumpster in parking log behind store

Hunan Teaneck
515 Cedar Lane
What: Bags of prepared, comingled Chinese food.
Where: Plastic garbage cans right in front of store
When: At night, up until about 5:30 or 6 AM.

Pizza Crave
439 Cedar Lane
What: vegetarian salad bar stuff– not lettuce and tomato salad, but Israeli salad type stuff– eggplant and chick peas and things. Lots of peeled cucumbers. Vegetable potato soup in containers. Sushi. All food is strictly kosher.
Where: Dumpster behind store, right by stairwell leading down from store to parking lot.
When: After about 9 PM weekdays, after sunset Friday night, after about 2 AM Saturday night


Rocklins
458 Cedar
What: Newspapers
Where: In the parking lot right by the back of the store. It’s the dumpster nearest to the street.
When: Definitely night and early morning, possibly anytime

Subway
559 Cedar Lane
What: lots of hero rolls
Where: behind the strip of stores, there is an alley of dumpsters. The Subway dumpster is about halfway along the row of dumpsters.
When: Evening and night.


Bagel Heaven
1150 Teaneck Rd
Bagels. Seem to not pick up daily so often older harder ones along with new ones.
Dumpster at back of parking lot behind store on right side.

Teaneck Fruit Market
Teaneck Road
lots of fruit, canned beans, cans of coconut milk, ginseng drinks, boxes of green tea. Fruit has included strawberries, apples, coconuts, watermellon canteloupe. Also veggies, including string beans. As of yet, the best dive I have found in Teaneck.

Dunkin Donuts
1406 Teaneck Rd
What: Usual Dunkin donuts assortment: Bagels, muffins, donuts, etc
Where: Dumpster behind shopping center (furthest dumpster out from shopping center)

Teaneck Road Hot Bagels
976 Teaneck Rd
Dumpster against back wall of store
LOTS of bagels in the dumpster behind the store

Beyond Dumpsters– an apple tree
On Palisade Ave just past Cedar Lane in the direction of Route 4 on the left side of the street. Yes, an actual apple tree. Litters apples into the street, down the hill its on, onto the sidewalk, etc. Really good apples. Just watch out for insects on the apples.

Oradell

Ronnie’s Hot Bagels & Cafe
296 Kinderkamack Rd
Lots of bagels in garbage bags in dumpster in parking lot behind store, near wood fence.

River Edge

Dunkin’ Donuts
101 Midland Ave
What: The usual Dunkin Donuts stuff– muffins, bagels, donuts, etc.
Where: Dumpster in surrounded by picket fence in parking lot.
How: Picket fence has an easy access door. I recommend entering fence and shutting door behind you to avoid making a spectacle of yourself and drawing heat from management. They may not even mind (Dunkin Donuts managers often don’t), but why risk it?

Wayne

Trader Joe’s 1172 Hamburg Tpke
Where: With back side of store to your back, walk straight. Dumpsters are in fenced area on the right(fence is open).
What: Lots and lots and lots really good whole grain bread. Pies. Meat stuff (yuck). Cookies. Nuts. Fresh Fruit (cranberries and bananas). Tofu. Hummus. Precut packaged salads. Fresh salsa. Vegan, sugar-free, whole grain muffins.
When: All night after about midnight.

Waldenbooks
Hamburg Tpke & Berdan Ave
What: Magazines, comics.
Where: everything from the shopping centers is co-mingled in one set of dumpsters, some within and some just outsider a chainlink fenced area (the fence is open). The Waldenbooks stuff, from my experience, is in the dumpster in the fenced area.
How: Magazines and comics are in cardboard boxes.
When: Any time of night

Dunkin Donuts
Hamburg Tpke (near Berdan Avenue)
What: Muffins, donuts, bagels, etc.
Where: Big dumpster right behind store.
When: Any time of night

Papa John’s
1204 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, NY 11553 (Hempstead Turnpike & Gilroy Ave)
Best days to go are Saturday, Sunday and Monday when the store closes after 2 am. Dumpster is behind the building on Gilroy Ave. The store throws out entire pizzas still in the box, and the pizzas are usually on top of the dumpster.

ew to You thrift store at Grant and Delevan
free Panera (bread) products every Tuesday

Aldi – across from Lasalle train station
great produce, eggs, bread, packaged foods – best time is between 11pm and 7am

A couple of older listings (Buffalonians, please let us know if they’re still accurate!)

Elmwood Bagel
783 Elmwood Ave
At this location, one can actually find a milkcrate left by other freegans to stand on. Bring a flashlight! Over 5 double bagged garbage bags filled to the brim with an assortment of bagels made fresh that morning! But hurry before someone gets all the blueberry!

Lexington Co-op
807 Elmwood Ave
Wait until they’re closed. They have tons of freshly made and wrapped salads and sandwiches for vegans and vegetarians.

Charlotte, NC

Sent to us by someone who grew up there:
Trader Joe’s
The only Trader Joe’s we have ever had any luck with was the southernmost one on Rea Rd. the other either had compactors or nothing that we got. The one on Rea rd is pretty awesome though – we have gotten over a case of wine total there, tons of chocolate, and some produce. Their dumpster is in a compare corral but it is not locked and a little ways away from the actual building.
Bread Smith
Hwy 160 Fort Mill, SC (suburb of Charlotte)
ALWAYS has TONS of delicious bread. It is so easy that my dad goes! there are all kinds plus dessert breads and they are high quality. They are closed on Sunday but still have bread in their dumpster then, so my dad goes then so he won’t get caught, but you can go whenever. Dumpster located in a dumpster corral.

Charleston, SC

Sent to us by a long time resident:
Vegetable Bin 
96 Spring St
Lots of good produce
Earth Fare
74 Folly Rd.
Usually has apples and potatoes, but some digging around is required; other produce frequent. Also, they throw away things that get returned to them so we have gotten lots of canned items and such. Sushi also regular, but we only ever trusted the vegetable sushi. Afterwards, hop on over to Normandy Farms across the street in the same plaza area and get some bread, not always the best but worth a look.
World Market
Near the Citadel Mall
We never got anything good here, but we knew people who said they always got lots of good stuff. We did get some candy canes and marzipan at different times.
Trader Joe’s
Mt. Pleasant
Now has a locked dumpster corral, but it is possible to climb over (not easy to do and there is a no trespassing sign). Not as good as it used to be, but can usually get a solid box of food out of it. Mainly produce, some other items. They dump their stuff late, around 1 or 2 o’clock, so don’t go earlier.

CHICAGO, IL

Food Not Bombs The Rogers Park chapter has been a staple for a few years now and is managed by Loyola Students.  Every Sunday at 3pm in the United Church of Rogers Park (non-denominational/anti-war) the group feeds about 50 families.  They always need help with transport from the Lakeview Whole Foods to the church on Friday and Saturday nights. Contact Jack, info(at)ethicallyengineered(dot)com, for more info.

We’ve heard the info below is hopelessly out of date. Anyone want to try their hand at updating it? We’d be grateful!

Einstein Bros Bagels is replenished more or less daily. A lot of vegan bagels. These two are the only ones I know fer shure that you can dumpster:
2212 N Clybourn Ave, 3420 N Southport Ave

Whole Foods: 1000 W North Ave. Very eclectic dumpster. wide ranging and random.

Stanley‘s Produce: 1558 N Elston Ave. I’ve heard that if you go there at 7:00 in the morning, they’ll give you free produce. They have one of those small trash compactors, so, while they do throw out a lot of good produce, the selection is limited to just whatever is within arms reach.

D’Amato’s Bakery: 1332 W Grand Ave.  Yer basic bakery. D’Amatos makes some good old school shit. Fer shure try to get yer hands on some of their foccacia.  They have four dumpsters.  If the ones in the alley are empty, check out the ones in the parking lot.

Trader Joe’s: 3745 N Lincoln Ave. Amazing dumpster. They have a fence around the dumpster area, but it’s very easy to go over it, under it, or around it.  Hard to dumpster here, because they often work all night. They don’t like divers, so don’t let them see you.

Edmar’s: 2019 W chicago.  Produce. Lower quality than stanley‘s, but much more quantity.

Red Hen Bakery: The dumpster is behind the bank at Damen, Milwaukee and North. It’s just bread. Nothing real special.

Panera bread: 2070 N. Clybourn. Again, it’s just bread.
——————————————————————————————–
Suburbs:
Just look up a suburban trader joes and hit em up.  They never lock their dumpsters.

OAK PARK AND BERWYN:

Pan Foods: Oak Park Ave. and Harrison st, oak park. Produce. Off and on.

Great Harvest: Lake st. and Oak Park Ave. Awesome organic healthy bread bakery. They have amazing bread. Dumpster is sometimes locked. If you go into the store, they’ll give you a free sample slice of whatever.

Egg Store: 7065 Cermak Rd, Berwyn, IL (It’s at the strip mall at Cermak and Harlem. While you’re there, check out the beautiful sculpture of cars impaled on a giant spike.). Very prolific produce dumpster.  Medium quality. Mostly produce, but also some fancy healthy vegan bagels and bread on occasion.  Baltic Bakery breads pretty frequently.
————————————————–

Dominicks and Jewel: Shitty supermarkets. Worth checking out their dumpsters if you’re near there. Just look em up on maps.google.com .

Aldi: Very low quality, but usually a lot of stuff in their dumpsters.  Look em up, too many of em to list.

Cincinnati, OH

Panera Bread
9530 Colerain Avenue
Cincinnati, OH 45251 
What You’ll Find: lots of bagels and french bread

Panera Bread
5555 Glenway Avenue
Cincinnati, OH 45238 
What You’ll Find: lots of bagels and french bread

Trader Joe’s – Kenwood
7788 Montgomery Road
Cincinnati, OH
(513) 984-3452
Across the street from Taco Bell
Open daily from 9a-9p 
What You’ll Find: produce such as salad, tomatoes, tangerines. lots of cheese if anyone wants to touch the stuff. some packaged bread. yogurt. apple butter. pizza dough.

Marietta, Ohio

Many thanks to Dylan R., who sent us this info in March 2009:

Note that the major grocers in Marietta (i.e. Kroger, IGA, Giant Eagle) have no accessible dumpsters. They tend to use compactors.

Salvation Army Thrift Store
175 Post St, Marietta, OH 45750
What you’ll find: I’ve had a lot of success pulling a variety of things out of their dumpster, including shoes, old books, stuffed animals, CDs, and other interesting trinkets. It’s hard to know when they empty it, but it was full early Thursday morning.

East of Chicago Pizza Company
111 Pike St, Marietta, OH 45750
What you’ll find: They throw out tons of Hot-N-Ready pizzas; I found about 15 of them when I looked. The rest of the dumpsters behind this shopping center are worth a look as well.

Aldi
708 Pike St, Marietta, OH 45750
What you’ll find: a lot of produce; I found many heads of lettuce, grapes, Oreo snacks, broccoli, and tomatoes. Much more full on some nights than on others.

Tim Horton’s
118 N 7th St, Marietta, OH 45750
What you’ll find: A safe bet for some freshly-discarded bagels. Reaching the dumpster is tricky, however; the store is open and staffed all night long and the dumpsters are behind an unlocked gate clearly visible from the store’s back window. I crept in when the employees went to clean the kitchen.

Wal-Mart Supercenter
804 Pike St, Marietta, OH 45750
What you’ll find: Wal-Mart itself keeps all its waste in a trash compactor, but the other stores in this shopping center are ideal for dumpstering. I found a broad assortment of items including food, shoes, and toys.

Indianapolis, IN

A few sites from a local forager:

Kroger
at 3 locations:
– Glendale
– 5911 S. Madison, at E. Edgewood Ave.
– Greenwood

Save-A-Lot
at 31 and National

Lansing, Michigan

In Lansing, Michigan, the Better Health Store has a nice dumpster, out of the way behind the store, and they throw away lots of organic breads and produce, cheeses and chips, as well as the occasional expensive cosmetic item, like organic lotion.

Address: 305 N Clippert St, Lansing, MI

Minnetonka, MN

Breadsmith
Plymouth Rd./Ridgedale Dr., Minnetonka, MN
Type of Venue: Bread Store/Bakery
Bags or dumpsters? Dumpsters
Where is the trash? In back inside wooden pen
What can you find there? Bread, Bagles, Cinnamon Rolls, Bread,
When is the best time to look? after 7pm
When is too early or too late? look after the bread store has closed, they will throw out their extra bread at the end of the day
What are the best/worst days to go there? worst-8am, delivery men who will yell at you
Anything to watch out for? shares a dumpster with a paint store, so inspect all food well prior to eating
Expect friendly/unfriendly owners/managers? not the nicest of guys, so don’t let them see you

Tulsa, OK

Lee’s Bicycles
81st and Memorial
What you’ll find:
Bicycle parts, and occasionally, entire bicycles. Lee’s has no problem with you removing their trash. I’ve rescued everything from complete road bikes to bike computers, pedal clips, wheels, tires, and an unbelievable number of inner tubes in near perfect condition. Not to mention the cardboard shipping boxes that can be reused for projects. Trash pickup is on Thursday morning, so best time to visit is Sunday through Tuesday. The alley with the dumpster is very narrow, so it’s best to pull in from Memorial, as their dumpster is the first one. You can back right up to it rather than pulling in forward and having to navigate the narrow alley on your way out.

Boulder, CO

Thanks to a freegan who lived in Boulder for the summer and submitted this report. If you know more, please send ’em on to ask@freegan.info.

Wild Oats
303 Marshall Rd., Superior CO 8002, about 5 miles out of Boulder, right at the intersection of McCaslin and Hwy 36. Enter the dumpster from the sidewalk near the offramp of 36. The back door to the store is about 50 feet away from the dumpsters, but in plain view.

It was without a doubt the easiest food I have ever ‘shopped for’. It is packed with vegetables and fruit, bread, and the occasional miscellaneous. It is a composting dumpster, so everything in it is technically edible, although some of it’s gross. THIS DUMPSTER WAS AWESOME!

When? Sundays at 9 or ten o’clock pm (around closing time) are the best by far. I went a bunch of times all summer, and Friday was the only day where I found close to nothing.

Fort Collins, CO

Many thanks to David, who send in lots of great info in April and May 2012:
Walmart
1250 E Magnolia, off of Lemay north of Mulberry.
Look in the brown garbage bins in the back (N side of building) – there is always tons of decent produce. Usually there is a grouping of empty bins and a grouping of full ones.
The Vitamin Cottage
4318 S College
Throws away good food, but it’s hit or miss. I’ve had more luck at the VCs in Denver and Lafayette.
Bed, Bath and Beyond
110 W Troutman
Often has nice home furnishings in the dumpster.
Pizza Casbah
126 W Laurel
There’s an occasional pizza at night in the dumpster in the alley, though I’ve come up empty-handed more often than not.
Little Caesars 
1720 W Mulberry
Get there right before they close at 10 and they might just give you many pizzas. I’ve heard this is a very good spot.
Big City Burrito
510 S College
Arrive about 10 minutes before they close at 10 and tell them you want leftovers – they’ll give you a bag of salty potatoes and rice, and sometimes veggies. This always works but there may be competition.
Panhandler’s Pizza
1220 W Elizabeth
Go right after close (10) to dumpster behind building. They’re usually kind enough to just put pizza on the top of the garbage!
Gib’s bagels
2531 S Shields
Brand Spankin’ Used
227 S College – dumpsters in alley in the back
Various businesses dump here, lots of miscellania from the thrift store, as well as office supplies, bagels too. Probably the best spot in Old Town.
And there is a Food Not Bombs 24/7 drop off/pick up garage near Old Town, but you have to ask people in the know to get the address.

Denver, CO area

We received this tip in Feb 2012. We’d LOVE to have more info on what’s going on in the Denver area.

Krispy Kreme
7514 E. Parkway Drive
Lone Tree, Colorado
From a worker there: “We throw out AT LEAST 46-140 DOZEN doughnuts every day! I hate how much is being wasted, because the doughnuts are perfectly fine! I’d be glad to know someone else was still able to use them.”

 

Grand Forks, North Dakota

While locals to the Red River Valley are generally familiar with the seasons, it’s worth mentioning most wild/edible plants do not appear between late September and late March due to extreme temperatures, and considerable snowfall. For the same reasons (and considering wind chills), urban foraging in winter (especially at night) can be very uncomfortable or downright difficult.

Many local businesses (particularly the Co-op) actively work to prevent waste of food through donations to the Mission and other charity organizations. Farmers will often distribute their excess produce via social networks and churches. A good way to get free produce is to offer help in gleaning the fields during harvest time.

Information and resources on reducing/consuming otherwise wasted food/commodities/items can be found by talking to the employees at Amazing Grains (the Co-op) next to the Sorlie bridge on Demers ave downtown. They are very helpful and friendly.

Dumpster diving meetups can be planned here: http://dumpsterdiving.meetup.com/cities/us/nd/grand_forks/

When scavenging for non-food items, the Grand Forks freecycle.org network is often very active (http://groups.yahoo.com/group/grandforksfreecycle/). The city also has Spring Cleanup Week during the first week of May, where residents put sometimes massive amounts of trash by the curb for the city to remove free of charge. Berm-foraging is widely practiced and locally publicized. For large items, it is socially correct to ask the resident before taking it. Electronic items can sometimes be found, but ones with cords cut off mean the item is broken or dangerous. The type of trash found in the berms varies year to year with 2008 seeing a lot of toilet seats, then furniture/broken electronics in 2009. Avoid or be wary of scavenging from piles that have water-damaged items. The sour smells and mold content embedded in items previously under the same roof since the Flood of 1999 are usually not worth saving.

When urban foraging options are scarce, the next option is wild foraging.

Wild onions or field garlic can be found alongside roads or in open public lands. The plants can be identified with a handbook available at the library off of South Washington near K-mart, and when leaves are crushed they smell strongly of onion/garlic. Look for these between June and September. They can be found often along the Greenway.

Dandelions mature and are good from May until September, or the first frost. Toward the end of summer they become somewhat bitter but are not inedible. These can be found almost anywhere, but a good rule of thumb to avoid pesticides is offering (ahead of time) to pull the plants out of yards. Most residents will appreciate the free weed removal and (if asked) will let you know if the plants/yard has been treated.

Sugar beets are common, particularly in summer and fall. They literally litter the streets during harvest, when they fall from the beet trucks onto the road. Prepare them like any other beet, but be aware that they are very different from commercial red beets (aside from being enormous) in flavor.

Day (tiger) lilies can be found in places like University Park (University and N 25th st) and Lincoln Drive Park (Euclid ave, off of 10th ave S going east), and in moist areas along the Red River from July to September. They can also be found sometimes along rural roads. Virtually all parts of the plant are edible but the flowers are most widely used.

Henbit Deadnettle flowers in June/July and often colors fields purple. A common lawn weed, the tops of flowering plants are the most palatable. Leaves are eaten like salad greens.

Mountain mint (related to spearmint) can occasionally be found in fields, roadsides and rurally along the Red River. The leaves smell strongly when crushed, generally indicating you have the right plant.

Yellow sorrel can be found in grass everywhere from late June to September. Eat in moderation as an accent to other foods, rather than by itself.

Clover can be found everywhere and is good from May until frost. Leaves can be eaten raw but are easier to digest when cooked.

Pine needles and oak leaves are available throughout summer and mid-fall. Most pines seem to grow from Aurora Medical Park on S Washington toward the west (farmers and landscapers use them against wind erosion), while many oaks are toward the river near Lincoln Drive Park and along the Greenway. Needles/leaves aside, you can always eat the pine nuts/acorns raw or cooked.

Juniper berries can be eaten in moderation or as a spice when ripe (blue-black color). Find these trees where you would pines and other evergreens. They are usually ripe in the fall.

Lilacs are everywhere (widely used for wind and erosion control) from late June to late August. Eat the flowers as part of a salad or use it to flavor foods. Empty residential lots and public areas, particularly around 44th ave S or Gateway Dr, are good places to look. Branches hanging over fences along sidewalks also count as public property. Find these in the neighborhoods near the Kennedy bridge on Gateway Dr or going south through the residential areas of East Grand Forks.

Fruit trees drop fruit usually mid-August. A decent apple tree grows near the Ramada Inn and Visitor’s Bureau off Gateway dr on N 43rd st. The apples are small but flavorful and on public property. Gleaning fallen apples in the afternoon allows bees to eat and calm down, making the harvest safer and easier. Crabapples, though smaller and more tart, can also be found in the area.

Update from Sept 2011:

Independence Park: 5th Ave. S and S 12th St– small area off Demers Ave near the Smiley water tower
What you’ll find:  The city plants flowers and some edible plants with the expectation people can/will take some if they need it. In late summer and mid-fall (Aug-Oct) there are apples and rhubarb every year. Sometimes the strawberry patch produces fruit, but this is hit or miss. The patch has so many runners that a person can take cuttings for a home garden and not spoil the park or the mother plant. Later in the season the city sometimes plants ornamental (but still edible) hot chilies and/or kale.
Note: The rule of the park is to not take everything. Harvest what’s ripe or would otherwise waste and clean up what’s no longer good (there’s a compost bin next to the park) to help better the garden for others. If a heavy frost or snow is imminent within the next day, taking more than normal is considered acceptable.

University Park: University Ave and N 23rd St
What you’ll find: Kale and rose hips in fall, lilies and other edible flowers in summer. Mid-September is Potato Bowl and there’s a festival in the park featuring free french fries. You can wait in line for fresh ones, or also a lot get wasted by people who eat a few and discard the rest of the container in the grass.
Note: Go after dusk to avoid harassment from students. Don’t take everything, harvest what’s ripe and tidy up what’s already gone bad.

Urban Development Office: 1405 1st Ave N, along the sidewalk
What you’ll find: Apple trees, huge crab apples and small, super-sweet plums.
Note: If you’re going for a haul larger than what can fit in your hands or pockets, they prefer you come after hours. This is the best time anyway, since bees are most active (and thick here) during the day.

Northern Plains Potato Growers (East Grand Forks, MN): 420 Us Bus. Hwy 2 (Demers from ND side), corner of 5th Ave NE
What you’ll find: Depending on the season, more potatoes than the average person sees in a lifetime. Harvest time is mid-fall, so look for the most excess during September and October. Dumpsters are visible from the 5th Ave NE side.

Lincoln Drive Dog Park: 13th Ave S/Lincoln Dr, first left inside the park then straight down the hill
What you’ll find: Apples
Note: Tree’s at the end of the small dog park. Doesn’t overlap the fence, so there’s minimal risk of dog waste contamination.

Demers Ave along S Columbia exit ramp
What you’ll find: A big patch of sumac berries, typically in late Aug through mid-Sept.

Throughout town, July-Aug
What you’ll find: Cherry plums. These trees are hard to miss– they’re the only ones with distinctive, red-purple leaves. The berries are small (not good for casual eating due to pits) but great for making jelly/preserves/sauces.
Tips for getting extra apples: Friends, neighbors or coworkers more than likely have at least one tree among them. Many people don’t do anything with their trees and the rotting fruit becomes a nuisance. A great way to get apples is to advertise (word of mouth or flyer) your services in apple removal. It’s not unusual to get 50lbs+ from one tree, so a good strategy is offering to donate part of your haul to charity. You get fruit, feed the hungry, and the tree owners don’t have to deal with bees eating the fallen fruit.

Charities that accept food donations:
Northlands Rescue Mission — 420 Division Ave
EGF Food Shelf — 1715 3 Ave NW (East Grand Forks)
Emergency Food Cupboard — 219 S 4 St
Salvation Army — 1600 University Ave
St Vincent De Paul — 620 8 Ave S
Supplementary Food Program for Seniors — 1013 5 St N

Arizona

From a contributor in Arizona in Jan 2011:

New Frontiers in Flagstaff, AZ
Go at night once they have closed, there is a main dumpster that you can creep in, but you gotta be cautious because the exit for the police station goes right next to the can… never had any trouble though, also as a bonus… there is a compost bin that they donate to farmers and people like ourselves which is located (if facing the dumpster) maybe about 60 feet behind the dumpster next to the building.

Trader Joe’s in Scottsdale, AZ
Frank Lloyd Wright and 78th st – for this one you have to go around 11pm, one worker caught me at about 10pm but nothing came of it, we just parted ways, me with 30lbs of organic apples in tow…

There is another located on Scottsdale and Lincoln, as a bonus it has a an AJ’s which is a bourgeois grocer nearby. I went to the TJs in the day and was caught, but it seems doable anyways since the trash is so offset from the store, also, i snagged some stuff from AJ’s, but there was not a lot of time to explore, I am sure at night these would yield a serious bounty….

Folks living in Tempe can just hop on the 72 N and ride to both of these locations, as the 72 N goes down Scottsdale Road day and night… but it’s only a 20 mile bike ride, so, it’s easy to tough out as well–

I found another AJ’s on camleback and 44th and another one on camleback and 2nd st. (ish) good food. There’s lots of pizza places everywhere too, i don’t know, I doubt many people care about arizona, sadly, it is a place that could really use a radical base as the border racism is rampant and cop protests would be surely justified.

San Francisco

A lot of dumpsters are locked up in San Francisco because there have been foragers for decades. Some stores have even added compactors to counter divers. How dare people eat waste for free instead of support a wasteful system!

Here’s a few we’ve gotten from readers in the bay area:

House of Bagels on Geary and 13th
Shit tons of bagels just left out. We fed a house of five breakfast for a month by freezing the

Safeway dumpster is one block east of 15th St and Potrero.

SemiFreddie’s, 4242 Hollis Street in Emeryville. They dump day old bread in the morning.

Food Not Bombs serves at UN Plaza Mon-Thurs at 6:30pm-7:00pm and Fri at 16th and Market at 6:00pm.

If you know of additional spots available, please email us!


Orange County, CA

Trader Joe’s
throughout the county
What You’ll Find: LOTS of bags of potato chips

Seattle

Thanks to Seattle freegans for these tips. If you know more, please send ’em on to ask@freegan.info.

Trader Joe’s
University district location
4555 Roosevelt Way NE
The best time to hit this dumpster is between 10:30 and 11:30. I’ve spoken with an employee and he says they generally take the garbage out around 10:30 or 11. They often leave out food they consider to be salvageable behind the dumpster. The dumpster is located to the left of the parking garage, to the right of a gym. Recent finds have included several pounds of zucchini, a package of artichokes, a case of Hansen’s natural soda, etc.

Essential Baking Company
1604 N. 34th St.
March 2010 update: we got a tip that this company has moved their baking operations to Georgetown, so the 34th Street dumpsters are no longer there. Anyone who has checked on the dumpsters at their new location, please let us know!

Pioneer Organics
8 S. Idaho Street
The new address came from a worker at the store in summer of ’07. A comment from NWDumpsterDivers : “Pioneer Organics always has fairly full dumpsters though you may have to dig through some boxes. Put them back nicely! Good almost any time of week.”

City People’s
2939 E Madison St.
“You can find all kinds of good plants at this nursery. It’s a high end nursery in madison valley,
so they end up tossing some really nice plants. Really, I have a full herb garden from here!
The neighborhood is pretty quiet, so don’t park in the lot or make too much noise so we can all enjoy! Pretty irregular, but when it’s good its really good.”

Produce Market
23rd ave S and Rainer
Piles older produce outside on the west side during the day. Some of the vegies looked to be in fine shape.

Cinerama
2100 4th Ave at Lenora, close to Westlake Mall and Seattle Center
From a worker:  “You can always go inside and ask for some free stuff that I know for a fact are thrown away every day. At around 11:00 every morning and ask if you can have some of the cupcakes they’re getting rid of.  At around midnight you can also come by and ask for whatever popcorn they’re going to throw away and they can put it in a huge trash bag for you (chocolate popcorn, regular popcorn, or mixed). I don’t know if this helps at all, but I do work there and want to help curb the insane amount of waste that occurs there daily. The staff would be more than happy to help these items not go to waste. I’m glad it will be used as a resource!”

Free Food Markets
There are Saturday and Sunday free markets stocked with supermarket and coop “leftovers”, that would otherwise be thrown away. Amazing initiative from Seattle Food Not Bombs and others. See their page for more info.

City Fruit
No, this isn’t dumpstering but check it out anyway. City Fruit works to be sure that fruit that would otherwise drop to the ground and spoil gets harvested, and the trees get some love as well. They’ve also put together a fruit tree map that you can add to. As they say, don’t pick fruit without asking.

Tacoma, WA and nearby

Tacoma

Marlene’s Market and Deli
2951 S 38th St
“I used to work in produce at Marlene’s. Out back they have several organic food waste bins, some with good stuff. Also, if you go in and ask someone in the produce dept. if there’s anything they can give rather than throw away they’ll usually say ‘yes.’ However, don’t call and ask for stuff. The management is as lame as the employees are cool.”

Puyallup

Safeway
611 South Meridian, next to the library
Loads of whole-wheat bread and bagels.

Vermont

Hannaford
Some Hannaford stores have a line of trash bins in the back filled with mostly produce, and occasional bread and baked goods.

Lake Champlain Chocolates
65 Church St
Burlington

Klinger’s Bakery
10 Farrell St
South Burlington


Vancouver, BC

JJ Beans Coffee-house, Stuart’s Bakery, Deep Dish Pie Shop, Island Pizza

Granville Island Market is the best spot for diving in Vancouver. The market closes at 7:00 pm. The businesses in the market stress the freshness of their products – which means there’s a lot of waste. They can’t charge a premium price for a bruised apple – so it gets tossed.

Show up at 6:55 at JJ Beans coffee-house for a free cup of coffee – bring you own cup or thermos. Step outside, cross the street and grab a seat on the bench beside the two green dumpsters.

Stuart’s Bakery bags up all the left-over baking from the day and leaves the bags on the bench for us so we don’t have to get into the dumpster. There’s usually white, whole wheat bread, but often sesame challah (egg bread), muffins, cinnamon loaves. One time the clerk brought out a large plate with left-over pastries cut up into small pieces. From time to time we get a deep dish pie. Last week a bananna cream pie.

Around 7:30 the clerk from the pizza shop drops by with a box containing the left-over pizza slices: Hawaiian, Mediterranean, Pepperoni, Pepperoni and cheese.

La Baguette

Head over to Triangle Square (50 feet away) to La Baguette ( a French Bakery). They have up to 5 bags a day of artisan loaves, french baguettes, and buns of left over. Grab a bag and carry it across the street to the Market Building where it’s divided up. The owner of the bakery is a very decent guy. Last Friday he passed us a bag of chocolate eclairs still warm from the oven to share. Heaven. On rare occasions there are left over sandwiches.

Sydney, Australia

CL Pastry
8 Bridge Road
They throw out lots of food on Thursdays.
